198~The solution should provide detailed context sensitive help material for all the possible actions and scenarios on all user interfaces in the application.
282~The solution should provide an interface for the user to log any defects or enhancement requests on the application and track thereafter.
34~The solution should send alerts (for example, email, SMS) to the user if the user chooses to whenever any action has been taken on the alert.
8~The solution should enable the user to track the submitted defect or enhancement request.
401597~The solution should enable the help desk user to view the reports on the submitted defects or enhancement requests category wise, status wise, and age wise.
4~The support solution should be accessible to the users both from within the application and also outside the application through a browser interface.
12~The System must keep an unalterable audit trail capable of automatically capturing and storing information.
160~Once the audit trail functionality has been activated, the System must track events without manual intervention, and store in the audit trail information about them.
768~The System must maintain the audit trail for as long as required, which will be at least for the life of the case to which it refers.
82944~The System must ensure that audit trail data is available for inspection on request, so that a specific event can be identified and all related data made accessible, and that this can be achieved by authorised external personnel who have little or no familiarity with the system.
380~The System must be able to export audit trails for specified cases (without affecting the audit trail stored by the System).
4~This functionality can be used by external auditors who wish to examine or analyse system activity.
1040~The System must be able to capture and store violations (that is A user's attempts to access a case to which he is denied access), and (where violations can validly be attempted) attempted violations, of access control mechanisms.
842~The System must at a minimum be able to provide reports for actions on cases organised: By case, By user, In chronological sequence.
104~The System should be able to provide reports for actions on cases organised by workstation and (where technically appropriate) by network address.
345~The System must allow the user to limit access to cases to specified users or user groups.
5~The system should provide for role based control for the functionality within the system
22~The System must allow a user to be a member of more than one group.
180~The System must allow only admin users to set up user profiles and allocate users to groups.
142~The System should allow a user to stipulate which other users or groups can access cases.
35480~The System must allow changes to security attributes for groups or users (such as access rights, security level, privileges, password allocation and management) to be made only by super user.
480~If a user requests access to, or searches for, a case which he does not have the right to access, the System must provide one of the following responses
20~If a user performs a quick or advanced search, the System must never include in the search result list any record which the user does not have the right to access.
248~If the System allows users to make unauthorised attempts to access cases, it must log these in the audit trail.
4754030~Any access to cases, and all other activities involving the cases and related documents or data should also need to be stored in the audit trail to ensure legal admissibility and to assist in data recovery.
892~All error messages produced by the System must be meaningful, so that they can be appropriately acted upon by the users who are likely to see them.
21~Ideally, each error message will be accompanied by explanatory text and an indication of the action(s) which the user can take in response to the error.
168~The System must employ a single set of user interface rules, or a small number of sets to provide a familiar and common look and feel for the application.
12~The System must be able to display several entities (cases, suspects) simultaneously.
72~The interfaces must be made customizable or user configurable to the extent possible.
4~(for example, the displayed columns in the table, move, resize, modify the appearance).
1~Such configurations must be saved in the user profile.
122~The System user interface must be suitable for users with special needs that is, compatible with specialist software that may be used and with appropriate interface guidelines
72~The System must provide End User and Administrator functions which are easy to use and intuitive throughout.
64~The System must allow persistent defaults for data entry where desirable.
22~Frequently executed System transactions must be designed so that they can be completed with a small number of interactions (for example mouse clicks).
24~Where the System employs a graphical user interface, it must allow users to customise it.
2~The user interfaces should be designed to make them user intuitive.
3~The user interfaces of the system should comply with Standard ISO 9241.
27720~Providing text equivalents for non text media objects: All non text media objects, such as graphical images or video, should be provided with alternative equivalent textual descriptions and or or with equivalent text based functionality.
528~Making navigation self descriptive: Navigation should be designed to help users understand where they are, where they have been and where they can go next.
12~General guidance on achieving self descriptiveness is given in ISO 9241 110.
21845248~Showing users where they are: Each presentation segment (page or window) should provide the user with a clear and sufficient indication of where he or she is in the navigation structure and of the current segment position with respect to the overall structure.
2520~Offering alternative access paths: Alternative access paths for navigating to a specific unit of content should be offered to support different navigation strategies.
2689~Minimizing navigation effort: The number of navigation steps needed to reach a certain piece of content should be minimized as long as different mental models, navigation strategies and tasks of the user are taken into account.
26~Splash screens should be avoided unless they provide useful content or feedback about the application state to the user.
2~If a splash screen is used, a navigation option to skip it should be offered.
192~Avoiding opening unnecessary windows: Additional windows such as new browser windows or pop up windows should only be opened if this supports the user's task.
18~Opening new windows can distract, confuse or impede users for a variety of reasons.
10~They can superimpose the primary window, hiding relevant information.
576~They could make it cognitively more difficult to understand the navigation structure with negative effects on both usability and accessibility.
6~They also require additional user actions for closing unwanted windows.
1~Vertical scrolling should be minimized.
3712~This may be done by placing important information at the top and providing links to information that is further down the page.
2~Horizontal scrolling should be avoided wherever possible.
79~Designing for input device independence: User interfaces should be designed to allow activation of controls by a variety of input devices.
48708~The ability to choose between different input devices for activating controls such as links, fields and buttons is important both for users who prefer a certain input mode, mobile users and users with disabilities.
2~In general, device independence can be achieved if the functionality is operable via a keyboard.
48~Making user interfaces robust: User interfaces should be designed to be as robust as possible in the face of changing technology.
75828~This encompasses being able to present content containing newer technologies by older user agents as well as designing content to be usable with future technologies.
3948686~Acceptable opening or download times: Application pages should be designed and implemented so that there are acceptable opening times and download times for the expected range of technical contexts of use (for example bandwidth between the application and the user).
328~This is particularly important for frequently accessed pages or pages that are important for user navigation and exploration, such as the home page.
227~Minimizing user errors: Potential user errors as well as the effort needed to recover from errors should be minimized.
100~Providing clear error messages: The content of error messages shown on the pages or special error pages should clearly state the reason why the error occurred and, if possible, actions the user can take to resolve the error.
64~Users expect error messages to be in the same language as the user interface.
1807700~Using appropriate formats, units of measurement or currency: When designing user interfaces for use by diverse groups, input and output of information elements such as currency, units of measurement, temperatures, date and time, phone numbers, address or postal codes should be designed so that they are usable.
29328~Making text resizable by the user: Text should be able to be resized by the user, using functions provided by the user agent or other appropriate means that is see ISO 9241 171.
58~Text quality: The quality of textual content with respect to spelling and grammar should be sufficient so as not to impede readability.
174496~Writing style: The reading and understanding of the textual content on the screen should be supported by suitable means, including the use of short sentences, the division of the text into shorter chunks or the presentation of content items in the form of bullet points.
52778~Supporting text skimming: Fast skimming of text should be supported by the provision of clear links, bulleted lists, highlighted keywords, logical headings, and short phrases and sentences.
102~Readability of text: Text presented on the pages should be readable taking into account the expected display characteristics and spatial arrangement.
1~ISO 9241 303 shall be consulted for screen text legibility requirements.
6~Distinguishable within page links: Within page links should be clearly distinguishable from other links that lead to a different page.
1~Within page links are shown with dashed rather than solid underlines
41~Avoiding link overload: Text pages containing large proportions of links should be formatted so that the presence of links does not impede the readability of the text.
41472~Using familiar terminology for navigation links: Navigation links, particularly links representing the main navigation structure, should be labelled with terms that are familiar to the user, based on his or her general knowledge, prior experience in the application domain or experience of using other systems.
8880~Using descriptive link labels: The target or purpose of a link should be directly indicated by its label, avoiding generic labels such as "go" or "click here" except where the purpose of the link is clear from its context on the page or the labels have commonly understood semantics in the particular application domain.
297~Using appropriate terminology specific to the user's tasks and information needs is important for making the content easy to understand.
15~Marking links opening new windows: Links that open new browser windows or pop up windows should be clearly marked.
117~Distinguishing navigation links from controls: Navigation links should be clearly distinguishable from controls activating some action.
100~Typical action types in user interfaces include manipulating application data, performing searches, communication actions, such as opening a new e mail window or starting a chat function, and presentation related actions, such as sorting a list of search results.
33280~Providing printable document versions: If a document is either too long, dispersed over several pages or in a specific layout that is not suitable for online reading, a printer friendly version of the document should be provided that prints the content in a form acceptable to the user (for example in the expected layout, paper format, or orientation).
27992~Use of "white space": "White space" on a page that is space filled only with the background color should be used in such a way that it does not impair the visual skimming of the page.
3200~While white space is an important means of visually organizing the different content elements on a page, if the distance between the blocks of information displayed becomes too large, rapid skimming of the page can be impeded.
36~Selecting appropriate page lengths The length of a page should be selected so as to support the primary purpose and use of the page.
388~Short pages are generally more appropriate for homepages, navigation pages, or overview pages that need to be read quickly.
58~Longer pages can be more appropriate when users want to read the content without interruptions or when the page needs to match a paper counterpart.
1088~Using colour: Colour should be used with care, taking into account human capabilities and restrictions in perceiving colour, and not as the only means of conveying information.
2~Color should never be the only means of coding.
27~Some users may have difficulties in perceiving certain colors or color combinations (color blindness).
5898~Using frames with care: If frames are used, care should be taken to avoid possible problems, for example, those involving the use of the back button, bookmarking of pages, or scrolling of information.
20~When frames are used, it is important to title each frame, and to describe its purpose and how frames relate to one another other.
120~Providing alternatives to frame based presentation: If frames are used, an alternative way of presenting relevant information without frames should be provided.
391974~Providing alternative text only pages: When style sheets and or or frames are turned off it should be possible for the user to read and understand the page alternatively, the user should be provided with an equivalent alternative text only page.
918~Consistent page layout: Pages should be designed using consistent layout schemes, supporting the user in finding similar information at the same position on different pages.
6~Overall layout schemes apply to all pages and are preferable when all pages have a similar structure.
30~Frequently, however, different pages have different purposes and types of content.
4~In such cases, pages can usually be grouped in different categories, using one layout scheme for each category consistently.
10~Placing title information consistently: Page titles should be placed in a consistent location on the different pages.
64~Observing principles of human perception When designing application pages, the general principles of human perception should be taken into account.
2~The International Standards mentioned below shall be consulted for guidance.
15~Practical guidelines for presenting information to the user are to be found in ISO 9241 12.
36~Guidance on selecting and using different forms of interaction techniques is to be found in ISO 9241 14 to ISO 9241 17.
2~ISO 9241 14 gives guidance about menus, ISO 9241 15 about command dialogues, ISO 9241 16 about direct manipulation and ISO 9241 17 about forms.
256~In addition, when designing multimedia information presentations, the design principles and recommendations described in ISO 14915 1 to ISO 14915 3 should be taken into account.
4~Appropriate content presentation also plays a key role in accessibility.
2106~Linking back to the home page or landmark pages: Each page should contain a link leading to the home page of the application or to a landmark page that is easy to recognize for the user.
22~Providing a site map: A separate navigation overview such as a site map should be provided for application showing the structure of the site in an overview form.
1375100~Consistency between navigation components and content: If navigation components are shown in conjunction with associated content, consistency between the navigation component and the content shown should be maintained by indicating in the navigation component the topic currently visible in the content area.
6~Placing navigation components consistently: Navigation components should be placed consistently on the pages or in the framesets in the pages of the application.
10152~Taking account of the users' tasks and information needs: When providing different access paths or navigation structures for different user groups, the tasks and information needs of these user groups should be taken into consideration.
41727~Making individualization and adaptation evident: It should be made evident to the user when individualization and or or adaptation are used.
138~Making user profiles evident: If predefined user profiles or user specified profiles are used for individualizing or adapting content, the profile currently used should be made evident.
104~If profiles are used, it is important to provide users with information about this concept and its implications.
2205~Allowing users to see and change profiles: If user specified profiles are used, users should be able to see, modify and delete that profile on demand.
3~The user interfaces of the system should follow the guidelines specified under www.usability.gov
330~The System must be available to users: from xx:00 to xx:00, on all weekdays or xxx days per year.
4~The planned downtime for the System must not exceed xx hours per rolling three month period.
608~The System is considered to be down if any user is unable to perform any normal System function and if this failure is attributed to any component of the System other than the workstation.
16~Unplanned downtime for the System must not exceed xx hours or minutes per rolling three month period.
20~The number of incidents of unplanned downtime for the System must not exceed x per rolling three month period.
5616~In the event of any software or hardware failure, it must be possible to restore the System (with inline synchronization) within no more than xx hours.
66~The System must provide adequate response times for commonly performed functions under both standard and peak conditions
21120~The System must be able to perform a simple search within 5 8 seconds and a advanced search (multiple search criteria) within 10 15 seconds regardless of the storage capacity or number of cases in the system.
1~In this context, performing a search means returning a result list.
4~It does not include retrieving the records themselves.
168~The System must be able to retrieve and display within 5 8 seconds the case which has been accessed within the previous 2 months, regardless of storage capacity or number of cases in the system.
176~This requirement is intended to allow for rapid retrieval of frequently used cases, on the understanding that frequency of use is typically correlated with recent use.
1140~The System must be able to retrieve and display within 20 seconds the case which has not been accessed within the previous 2 months, regardless of storage capacity or number of cases in the system.
876~This requirement is intended to allow for cases where cases used infrequently are stored on slower media than more active records.
440~The System be scaleable and must not have any features which would preclude use in small or large police stations, with varying numbers of cases handled.
1~The system should support multilingual interface
48~The system should be designed in manner that operational data is not lost in case of any failure of equipment or communication network.
7~The system should work even in an offline mode with the critical functionality
132~The system should be designed to have satisfactory performance even in Police Stations connected on low bandwidth
1~The system should be implemented using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and have a modular design
1~The system should be developed on Open Standards
16~The system should be built on a common User Access and Authentication Service to ensure Single Sign on for the end user
2~The system should be developed for a centralized deployment and maintenance
6~The system should be developed to be deployed in a 3 tier datacenter architecture
1352~The system should be designed to have a n tier architecture with the presentation logic separated from the business logic that is again separated from the data access logic
136~The system should be extensible to provide access to the interfaces through PDA's and mobile data terminals
1~The system should adopt standardized formats and common metadata elements
6~The system should be designed for access through browser based systems and must impose minimal requirements on the client device
8~The system must support multiple types of communication services for remote access
304~The system should have capability to support public access to a subset of data and functionality
2~The system should support multi tier authentication where required
1~The system should support SSL encrypted connections
2~The system should support secure virtual private network connections
42~The system should use HTTPS as the communication protocol, that is, HTTP over an encrypted secure socket layer (SSL)
4~The system should run on multiple browsers
2~The system should support selective encryption of the stored data
6~The system should ensure secure transmission of data over the network and utilize SSL and 2 way digital signatures
13~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Prevent cross site scripting
104~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Validate the incoming data or user request
104~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Encode the incoming data or user request
13~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Prevent SQL Injection
13~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Utilize parameterized queries
14~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Sanitize the user inputs
134~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Validate the data both at the client and server
26~The system should ensure high standards of security and access control through: Do not allow hard delete and perform only soft tagging the row for deletion
144~The system should ensure high scalability and performance through: Use of cache for storing frequent data
3070~Only when the user clicks on a particular record to view its further details should a query be fired to fetch the additional details for this particular record only
12~Database Indexes should be applied on the key columns used for searching
24~A hierarchical cache should be configured and used for caching of results of most frequently used searches
18~The search should fetch only the fields that need to be displayed to the user.
76~The system should ensure high scalability and performance through: Display of records on the screen in batches or paged manner
284~The search results should be fetched from the database in batches of 10 or 20 maximum as configured within the application
8~The system should ensure high scalability and performance through: Host all the static content (documents, images) on the web server
64~The system should ensure high scalability and performance through: Leverage Asynchronous HTTP socket capabilities of web server for scalability and performance
88~The system should ensure high scalability and performance through: Use of AJAX based technology to improve user experience.
26~Web Store shall operate with the following internet browsers: Microsoft Internet Explorer version 6 and 7, Netscape Communicator Version 4 and 5.
40~Web Store shall operate on an Intel based system with Slackware Linux 2.6 and Apache Web Server.
4~The operating system is designed by the Yoggie Corporation.
16~Although maintenance documentation will be supplied and the operating system will be tested, the developers of this Web Store are not responsible for the functionality of the operating system.
4~The system shall use SQL based database to store inventory information.
3~USB interface and divers are provided by Yoggie Corporation.
1~Must use a SQL based database.
2~SQL standard is the most widely used database format.
12~Restricting to SQL allows easy of use and compatibility for Web Store.
7~Compatibility is only tested and verified for Microsoft Internet Explorer version 6 and 7, Netscape Communicator Version 4 and 5.
5~Other versions may not be 100% compatible.
34~Also other browsers such as Mozilla or Firefox may not be 100% compatible.
10~Shall install online help for users via the web interface
4~Shall deliver Operations and Maintenance manual, Users Guide book, and Installation Instructions for the Administrator.
56~Customers will be able to create accounts to store their profiles, contact information, purchase history, and confirm orders.
14~Security methods will ensure that customer accounts remain confidential and resistant to tampering.
10~Customers will be able to create accounts to store their customer profiles, configure contact information, view their purchase history, and confirm orders.
9~Customers will be able to register, log in, and log out of their accounts.
36~Furthermore, Customer profiles will also include payment information, such as the ability to store credit card information, and address information.
24~Inventory management will allow for the placement of products into multi tiered categories.
13~Products will be stored in multi tiered categories a category can contain sub categories or products.
28~The inventory management will allow for administrators to update the categories, the products placed in categories, and the specific product details.
165~Customers will be able to add and store products for purchase within the shopping cart.
15~Customers will also be able to add products into the shopping cart.
54~The shopping cart will clearly display the number of items in the cart, along with the total cost.
1557~The customer will also be able to add to or remove products from the shopping cart prior to checkout and order confirmation.
55~Order confirmation will allow the customer to review their order after checkout prior to confirmation.
2~Customers will be able to confirm the order after checkout.
4~If the order is incorrect, the customer will be able to revise and update their order.
11~The customer will then receive a confirmation email with the specific order details.
5~The interface will be presented to the customer in a web browser.
1~The interface must remain consistent among various web browsers and be intuitive to the customer.
14~Customers will be presented with an unambiguous interface to assist in browsing the categories and products.
9~Customers will be able to search for products matching their search criteria.
1173~The interface will be compatible with all major web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Navigator, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, and Safari.
83~The system will feature an API to allow customers to build custom plug ins to be able to meet their needs.
36~This is a high priority system feature as it ensures the flexibility of the system to be tailored to specific needs.
6~The system will implement an Application Interface to allow for various plug ins to interact with the system.
3~The plug in API will be well documented and specifications will be provided to plug in developers.
32~The order database of WebOrder will communicate with the account system through a programmatic interface for the billing operations.
46~Through programmatic interface, WebOrder will transmit information of items ordered by customers to the Inventory management system.
168~The WebOrder system shall send an e mail confirmation to the customer that the items they ordered will be delivered to the shipping address along with tracking number.
135~The WebOrder system shall send an e mail to System Administrator regarding any technical queries from customers or sales people.
80~Upon the USB being plugged in the system shall be able to be deployed and operational in less than 1 minute.
60~The system shall be able to handle 1000 customers logged in concurrently at the same time.
2~The system shall be able to retrieve 200 products per second.
225~The system shall be able to add product to shopping cart in less than 2ms.
52~The system shall be able to search for a specified product in less than 1 second.
12~The system shall be able to email customer and vendor in less than 1 second.
12~The system shall be able to validate credit card in less than 2 seconds.
36~The system shall be able to acquire shipping charges in less than 2 seconds.
2~The system shall be able to restore 1000 records per second.
2~The system will do periodic backups through a live internet connection.
2~The system shall validate credit cards against fraud.
4~The system shall encrypt all sensitive information via https.
4~The system shall encrypt all customer data in database.
8~The system shall auto detect IP DOS attacks and block IP automatically.
1~The system shall detect consecutive failed login attempts.
1~The system shall be protected by open source firewall called Firestarter.
1~The system shall have an availability of 99.99%.
2~The system shall perform searches via Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm.
40~For returning customers, the system shall validate 'existing' credit card in system after each log in.
9~The system shall automatically compress image files that are too large in size.
9~The system will employ on demand asynchronous loading for faster execution of pages.
1~The system shall validate email address existence.
2~The system shall be easy to use
2~The system shall be easy to learn
4~The system shall utilize help bubbles to assist managers, customers, and administrators
1~The system shall employ easy to locate buttons
6~The system shall prompt customer with friend easy to read error messages.
6~The system shall utilize consistent symbols and colors for clear notifications.
1~The system shall utilize interchangeable plugins.
1~The system shall be easily updatable for fixes and patches.
43~The system shall create logs of all changes, updates, or fixes that are done to the site.
1~The system shall be easy to upgrade.
1~The system shall be extremely portable via the usb drive.
2~The system shall be easy to migrate or backed up via another usb drive.
2~The system should be able to run under debug mode.
4~The system should be able to run test credit card transactions.
11~The system should be able to run test shipping orders.
2~The system should be able to create test environment of weborder system.
2~The system hardware shall be fixed and patched via an internet connection.
16~Yoggie shall coordinate on future enhancement and features with our organization.
96~Unless the contrary is explicitly stated, all requirements and modes presented are intended to be available to all users of the system.
2816~It should also be noted that what the system has to guarantee in terms of operations must fulfill all possible requirements, but it does not mean that all features will be made available to all users at all locations at all times.
16~The available capabilities will have to be adapted to the operational needs both locally and remotely and these decisions can only be taken later in the life of the project.
2~Observing astronomers are the end users of the system.
237~They range greatly in experience from occasional users of the system to very experienced users such as staff astronomers at the telescopes site and service observers.
4160~Observing astronomers will wish to concentrate on the efficient acquisition of astronomical data and on line assessment of data quality, rather than on the details of controlling the telescope and instruments.
4129~The system must offer to a user an interface which, while fulfilling the various operational requirements in the different modes and offering status information both automatically and on request at any required level, is still simple to learn and secure in its use.
58~Observing astronomers shall have no privileges as far as the direct control of the telescope is concerned.
1500~They shall not be able to send control commands directly but they must be able to enquire about the status of the telescope or any subsystem at any time.
42~The intent is not to restrict the capabilities of the observing astronomer in any way but rather to establish a single point of control and responsibility.
8~Programs, as opposed to observers, may have the capability of direct control of the telescope.
369~This would allow the observer to create an observing program which requested a telescope control function but would not allow the observer to enter a command to slew the mount.
7~Traditional interactive operation shall normally be replaced by operation via an automatic sequencer.
8~This is essential to support operational requirements such as service observing and flexible scheduling.
1~A certain degree of interaction shall be provided, meaning in this case that the user will interact with the scheduler program, rather than with the control programs directly.
20~Observing commands will normally be submitted via the User interface to a queue for later execution.
20~It must also be possible to break and resequence this queue.
12~In particular, Operations staff will be able to enable direct interactive operation, but this shall not be considered as the normal operation mode.
160~It is evident that, for some functions (such as adjustment of spectrograph slit width for seeing conditions) it must be necessary to include interactive capability.
3~However each instance of such a function should be examined as a candidate for automation such as focussing.
6~The existence of the scheduling queue shall be transparent to the on site observer during the initial phases of telescope operation.
10~Only after experience has been gained with the system will the existence of the queue become evident to the on site observer.
1~Operations staff will control the telescopes indirectly via a scheduler program or directly via commands.
48~They will supervise telescope operation and will be able to advise observing astronomers on what they have to do to use telescope and instruments efficiently.
5~They shall also monitor general performance and system safety.
21~Operations staff shall have to access all commands and maintenance procedures in case of problems.
6~They shall not have access to subsystems while these are in normal operation.
52~If they need to access other parts of the system appropriate reconfiguration procedures have to be run.
32~Operations staff shall have access to operation tables in update mode, while observing astronomers will have access to them only in read mode.
42~Again, the intent is not to restrict the capabilities of the observing astronomer in any way but rather to establish a single point of control and responsibility.
8~At the present time it is not clear how to handle visitor instrument requirements in this area.
47712~They shall be able to change the operational status of units according to the results of tests performed on such units (for example to see if a faulty unit can be declared as operational again and redefined as part of the environment in use).
3200~Software development and maintenance are staff based either at the telescopes site or base facility, or based at the telescopes remote operations facility, or non system staff from a contract company or from an associated Institute.
16~Software development and maintenance staff intervene when there is a major problem to be solved or an upgrade to be installed.
21~They also perform system generation and installation of new software packages or new releases, according to established test and validation procedures.
398~Software development and maintenance staff need the highest privilege in order to be able to modify everything in the system.
12~Nevertheless strict configuration control guidelines must be followed to prevent interference with ongoing normal operation.
32~Software development and maintenance staff usually work at the test level for the part of the software under test.
15~Other parts of the telescopes may also need to run in test mode to support integration tests.
32~they shall be able to take calibration or ﬂat ﬁeld exposures in parallel
2610~they shall be able to prepare for an exposure to start as soon as the telescope beam is switched back to them (in this case, they are in a hot standby situation)
38~they shall be able to work at all foreseen operation levels (observing, maintenance, test)
8~Regardless of the status of an inactive instrument, it shall not be possible for any of its permitted actions to adversely impact the active instrument
218~The requirement to provide for support, installation, and operation of outside instruments brought by the observer has several implications for the system.
274~Due to the specialized nature of visitor instrumentation it is unlikely that complete integration into the system environment is either feasible or warranted.
2~In this case a subset of the available functionality must be made available through a standardized interface.
84~The system Telescopes view all instruments as operating as servers, responding to commands from the upper levels of the system.
17~Visitor instruments must be capable of operating in this mode to be adequately supported.
10~It should be the goal of this interface that it be a subset of the existing instrumentation interface (rather than a separate system).
68~Due to the nature of visitor instrumentation it is unlikely that more complicated functionality can be supported.
13~In particular coordinated motions of the system components with those of the visitor instrument (other than simple raster scans) will not be supported.
6~This does not mean that more complicated functionality will not be possible for visitor instruments that require it.
60~Such functionality will not be offered as a standard service but will require a joint effort on the part of system and the visitor instrument team.
1246~As more complicated functionality will be supported via standardized interfaces for the system instruments, such as coordinated motions, it should be possible to adapt visitor instruments to this standard.
46~The difﬁculty with offering such services as an externally supported standard, as opposed to an internally supported standard, is that decisions to change internal standards do not impact external users.
1438~It is important that the visitor instrument interface be stable and long lived, as the time between successive uses of the same visitor instrument can be as long as one or two years.
2~The support of visitor instrumentation is made simpler if the visitor equipment adheres to the system standards.
224~For these reasons it is probably not possible to establish a combined standard to which all instruments, both system and visitor, adhere to completely.
8032~It is much better to establish a subset of system facilities which will be made available to visitor instruments via long lived, stable interfaces.
2~Visitor requirements outside of these would be handled on an as needed basis.
2~The support of both system and visitor instruments would beneﬁt by the provision of a system observatory simulator.
50~This simulator, appearing to the instrument as a standard set of hardware and software interfaces, would present a functional deﬁnition of the observatory
1315~The requirements to have instruments operated as single units imply that several user stations will be active at the same time on the telescopes.
60~On these user stations, different kinds of users may be working at the same time with the telescopes software.
2540~Independently of the location of users at the telescope site, they shall be able to access (according to their privileges) any part of the whole setup with a simple logon and conﬁguration operation.
204~In other words any subsection of the whole telescopes system should be accessible and controllable from any single point (but of course with protection ensuring security and safety).
2~A particularly simple case of multi use of the system is multi point monitoring.
640~By this it is meant that, while some (active) user is in control of the telescopes, someone else can follow what they are doing by monitoring all the relevant data from telescope and instruments.
3215~All other users wishing to monitor telescopes operations have to go through the procedures set up by Operations and get permission to do so.
32~The multi point monitoring mode might also be important when certain difﬁcult or rare problems occur, when expert advice is needed and can only be obtained from colleagues situated remotely.
9400~Multi point monitoring allows them to follow directly the results of tests performed and investigate how the system is working (for example by selecting different display pages with the up to date status information on different parts of the system).
38~Multi point monitoring also allows a local observer to be monitored and advised by a remote supervisor.
90~Monitoring shall exist both in the form of automatic displays of status information at different locations, and in the form of explicit access to the required status information from any point.
1~Monitoring shall not affect the performance of ongoing observations.
30~Normally executed with the sequencer by providing a computer executable program, in order to make efﬁcient use of the system telescope.
4~Interactive operation is supported, but always through the Observatory Control System (OCS).
32~There is a visual user interface to the OCS to allow for changes to the viewing program.
14~It is possible to have more than one station participate in the observing.
2~Interactive observing with time allocation for full nights is a ﬁrst basic requirement of the telescopes.
584~It is therefore an essential requirement that telescope operation is supported by the software in a smooth and very friendly way in this mode.
6~Interaction will normally be via an automatic sequencer.
990~This is clearly a top priority requirement and one which will have to be realized before implementing any other mode.
400~The initial implementation of the automatic sequencer will operate in a "pass through" mode where all commands are accepted and transmitted with minimal checking and delay.
10~The observing program must be fully automated, requiring very little human interaction during the observation.
8~The means that the system software must include a sufﬁciently rich programming environment to make this feasible.
4~In addition, this should be a visually oriented environment providing a simple, easy to use interface to the astronomer.
1704~There should be a full telescope simulator to enable the astronomer to test observing programs for completeness, errors, and functionality.
1~This simulator should function within the virtual telescope environment of the system.
9~All control software must provide support for simulated use within the virtual telescope
3440~There is a requirement for software to assist in object selection both within an observing program and across observing programs, in order to optimize observing efﬁciency.
6~This software must consider target positions, weather conditions, and instrument conﬁgurations
422748~There must be software to support the ﬂexible scheduling, both manually and via a scheduler, allowing for the interleaving of observing programs in a manner that is transparent to the individual observing programs.
120~This includes managing the collection of science, environmental, engineering, reference, and calibration data.
3980~To maximize the use of the available observing time it must be possible to queue all of the observing that is possible with the currently available instruments.
2~These would be in the form of preprogrammed observing sequences.
12~It should be possible to resort the queue so that the next observation to take place comes to the front of the queue.
1270~This sorting will be based on properties of the individual observing sequences, current site conditions, and other rules established by the observatory directorate.
3~Thus queue scheduling is a superset of preprogrammed observing, with similar requirements.
78~As the costs of implementing such a scheduler are currently difﬁcult to estimate it may prove necessary to implement it in a future phase of the project.
12~The system design, if it does not include a scheduler, should speciﬁcally allow for its future implementation.
5~All software should be developed to permit remote operations.
2~There should be no conceptual difference between software working on site and remotely.
8~All observing facilities should work both on site and off site.
6~It should be possible to do full operations remotely
4~Team observing, with multiple observers at different sites should be supported.
18~It must be possible to restrict speciﬁc operations to speciﬁc remote sites.
2~The method used to restrict such operations should be independent of the operations themselves, and dynamic.
105~We will take advantage of commercially available protocols such as ISDN, TCP or IP, Internet, etc.
18~The choice of the name remote operations is meant to suggest an entire category of operations, such as remote observing but also remote access for diagnostic support.
24~Despite the obvious limitations introduced by the link bandwidths available at the different locations, the system shall be totally transparent to local or remote use.
104~It is only necessary that the functionality of the system be transparent, it is accepted that the speed of the link will determine the perceived transparency of the system.
3~The system design should minimize the impact of link bandwidth on transparency.
6~Security of operation shall be considered and might imply different operation levels and privileges at different sites.
2108~It is required that the remote operations software be considered from the beginning in the telescopes software design, to avoid redesign later.
72~This should reduce the amount of speciﬁc software needed for remote operations, as the common layers of software shall cope from the beginning with a distributed environment.
114~Remote control means that the function normally associated with a local Telescope Operator, that of entering telescope control commands, would be available from a remote site.
4~In practice remote control will be restricted to the telescopes Enclosure and telescopes Control Facility.
2~Remote monitoring is the simplest level of remote observing.
268~It is a requirement for the telescopes operation and will complement service observing, making it friendlier for users.
135~Remote monitoring coincides to a large extent with multipoint monitoring, but allows the remote user to "pick and choose" the information that is displayed on the remote screen.
4~There is no requirement that the remote screen be a duplicate of the local screen.
4~The remote keyboard will have no effect on the local user's environment.
18217~A remote observer might also need a real time video and voice link with the operator in the control room, perhaps using a portable video camera which the operator can position as necessary.
1~Quite apart from remote observing, remote access to the telescopes and its instruments is required for monitoring and diagnostic purposes.
48~This might be necessary to back up local users expertise and to help in case of problems.
2~Remote access, in this case, must be possible from the telescopes base facility.
4~Distributed access to the telescopes software, once implemented.
432~also allows, without extra requirements, local access (at the telescopes site) or remote access (telescopes support, base, and remote operations facilities).
10~The observing program must be automated, requiring little human interaction during the observation.
8~The means that the system software must include a sufﬁciently rich programming environment to make this feasible.
4~In addition, this should be a visually oriented environment providing a simple, easy to use interface to the astronomer.
20~This programming environment should be available both to the astronomer, for developing the program, and to the observer, for review and adjustment of the program.
2~This access may or may not be done concurrently on a shared environment.
5688~The programming environment should allow for the communication of special notes, instructions, and comments from the astronomer to the observer, possibly involving multimedia techniques.
1758~To achieve efﬁcient service observing, queue observing, and ﬂexible scheduling, it should be possible to carry out observations automatically, in accordance with predeﬁned sequences of exposures, as is commonly done in space observatories.
2~This corresponds to what is meant by planned observing, which still requires competent monitoring at the telescopes site or remotely.
132~At the same time, one does not want to lose the advantages and the extra ﬂexibility of ground based astronomy.
16~So whichever scheme is adopted to perform automatic sequences, interaction shall be allowed at the desired level.
108~The syntax of control ﬂow commands is to be consistent across the system, whether accessing workstation software or IOC software.
25~All subsystems must respond to a common set of commands to test operational status, inquiries as to version, perform self tests, etc.
86~All IOC subsystems must respond to additional common commands for such activities as start, stop, initialize, reset parameters, etc.
257~The support structure for communicating commands must be reliable, with a uniform ACK or NAK protocol adopted across all systems.
5~Timeouts must be supported at approximately 500 msec.
8~Handshaking of commands between IOCs must occur within 100 200 msec, signaling acceptance of each command.
3~For commands allowing delayed replies, timeouts for that reply must also be supported.
4~Peak control information within the system is expected to be 100 TPS, this assumes bridging between communication sections, to isolate trafﬁc in relevant sections only.
32~For focusing and related activities, maximum acceptable detector readout time is about 0.1 sec, though only a portion of the detector may be read during that time.
2~For mosaicked, large optical detectors, a full readout of the detector must be done in about 2 or 3 minutes.
264~Since the system supports monitoring of operation, there must be the capability of providing multiple, simultaneous access to data.
36~Data transfer between the virtual telescope system and attached workstations therefore imposes signiﬁcant transfer requirements on the LAN.
8~The LAN must support a transfer rate of 20 40 Mbits or second.
24~Data is normally acquired as uncompressed data, but may be compressed using a loss less compression technique for transmission from the system or across the system LAN.
160~The goal of compression is to minimize bandwidth impact on the LAN and WAN and to save space on removable media.
24~For data that requires preprocessing, such as infrared detector data, only the preprocessed data is stored.
16~Data from all instruments and detectors is stored as compressed data, using a standard format.
108~There is a ﬁrst level of storage within IOCs, to secure data in the event of link failures.
240~A second level of storage is on the system data disk(s), possibly also on removable media.
4~Quick look data quality assessment is done using this level.
16~Archiving of data is automatically done while in observing and maintenance level operation to the system Archive subsystem.
12~Shipping of data to a central archive follows later.
10~Data is transmitted between system and home Institutes using a FITS format and contains all header information provided with the data.
32~The data capacity of the system is limited by transfer methods and technology, as well as archiving capacity on site.
3552~The system data capacity is capable of retaining 7 days of data produced by the largest instrument, the last 3 days of which must be available interactively from hard disk or similar medium.
4~The system must allow for fast transmission of rough images every 0.5 sec.
80~This may be assisted through the use of data loss compression techniques (for example JPEG, MPEG, etc).
14~In addition, there is the need for transmission of images matching the original resolution.
12~This high quality transmission must require less than 20 sec, and can only be assisted with loss less compression.
1399~To preserve the integrity of the system, there must be a system of privileges established at each operating level of the system.
20~These privileges should be determined in a simple manner during logging into the system.
160~Protection against accidental interference is to be implemented using an Access Mode Allocation system that dynamically identiﬁes and assigns resources as needed.
2~Critical resources (those that can support only a restricted number of simultaneous uses) are assigned solely through this allocation system.
5~The allocation system must ensure that the system cannot remain deadlocked with respect to this resource allocation.
2~Finally, procedures must be implemented for convenience and system integrity, to simplify and codify common tasks.
11~The telescope and instrument software shall contain built in test (BIT) facilities to verify telescopes system and telescopes software performances.
40~Every telescopes software module shall have corresponding test speciﬁcations to check normal operation of releases, to be used both for acceptance tests and as an on line test procedure.
9~The telescopes control software shall also provide for execution of self test sequences of the telescopes system and subsystems.
5~These shall automatically exercise all subsystems present in a given operational conﬁguration.
1~Regression tests should be a part of every telescopes software package
1~Subsystems must notify the user when faults occur.
5~This notiﬁcation must be speciﬁc as to origin and problem.
2~The notiﬁcation must also be capable of being electronically logged.
1216~It may also prove useful to have multiple levels of fault notiﬁcation such as detailed, verbose, short, to aid in tracking down problems.
916~Should a subsystem fail (for example one detector, one instrument) predeﬁned procedures must exist to redeﬁne the environment in such a way that operation can restart with the remaining equipment.
896~In case of computer hardware failure concerning the user station equipment, it shall be possible to transfer control from one user station to another via a simple software reconﬁguration procedure.
40~In the case of IOC failure, no transfer of control to another IOC will be possible, due to the local connections and interfaces to the control electronics.
12~In this case there shall be a procedure to replace faulty cards and or or assemblies.
3009984~If it is possible to observe with that particular IOC in a failed state (in general, this is limited to IOCs that are associated with individual scientiﬁc instruments) then it must be possible to reconﬁgure the system to do so.
44~Full redundancy is not a requirement of the telescopes and it will be acceptable to have to replace units in case of failure.
92~There are subsystems which are relatively inexpensive to support as redundant systems, such as telescope control computers.
764~For each area where redundancy is decided to be cost effective, procedures for switching to the backup system will be established.
10~There is no requirement for automatic switching to the backup system.
36~All communication shall be based on the use of standard communication protocols, where retry procedures are applied (a form of software redundancy) as part of the protocol.
1908~Certain network concepts may be preferable as they offer intrinsic redundancy (for example double loops) and re routing possibilities in case of node failures (single point failure protection).
18~There should be no restrictions imposed by the software on users.
192~Only policy decisions (permissions, access privileges, etc.) should prevent any user from accessing any part of the system from any local or remote station.
3~Similar functionality should be presented to the users using similar user interfaces.
7~User interfaces should clearly reﬂect access modes and operating levels.
128~Commercial packages, off the shelf public domain software, and standards are to be used whenever feasible.
6~Existing external software will be integrated with the system software.
2~The interfaces involved in this integration are considered part of the system software system.
69~All system software is to be developed using standard methodologies and development environments.
35~One of the goals of system software is that all components be easily (preferably automatically) combined into an integrated system.
283~system software developers should maintain accurate change logs showing software modiﬁcations as they are applied to the system software.
9065~system software developers should adhere to a standard method for the reporting and recording of errors from both internal and external sources.
2~system software should be developed in evolutionary fashion, using the CVS version control system
16~All system subsystem packages should include as part of the software both a simulator module for inclusion in the virtual telescope, and user interface modules for the user interface environments that the subsystem will be operating in.
12~All system software is to be fully documented, internally with appropriate comments, and external documentation.
1~External documentation must include Unix style man pages.
44~All system subsystem packages must provide modules for the testing and diagnosis of the subsystem.
2~All instrumentation control software must provide full access to all instrument functionality.
24~It is likely that different user interface modules would present different portions of this functionality to the user.
4~The information required of each interface module is found in the Functional Requirements speciﬁcations for each instrument.
4~All system software must be version labeled, both in source and binary form.
60~The version information is to be retrievable from executing software via control commands.
18~There are different requirements for software running on different layers.
1~Strict real time control is restricted to the IOC layer.
60~No subsystem package should make any assumptions about the surrounding environment beyond that provided in the interface speciﬁcations.
18~The ﬁnal purpose of the telescopes software is the acquisition of astronomical data in digital form in the most efﬁcient way.
35880~To achieve this, many other data concerning the telescope and instruments (parameters) and control commands will have to be exchanged between different processing units in order to setup and control telescope and instruments.
90~Control information must be transferred, typically in the form of commands and replies from users, to telescope and instruments.
1380~Replies might contain status information and, in general, data concerning instruments and telescopes, to be stored together with the astronomical data.
88~Control information on all controlled variables must be provided by all subsystems on request.
9~No request for information shall produce a delay of control activities or locking, even if the corresponding equipment is not available or faulty.
2550~Delay times for the exchange of control information must stay within precise time limits to be deﬁned in "General Description" in Chapter 2.
26208~One can afford to retransmit commands in case of transmission error or collision, but the protocol has to be predictable in that commands cannot get lost and replies have to come back reliably.
4~In a number of cases, synchronization with the Time Reference System at the telescopes site is also necessary.
99324~Access to control parameters, telescope and instrument information for monitoring or other use makes a signiﬁcant contribution to the control ﬂow, and may be logged at quite high rates for short periods (that is up to 200 Hz for some information).
72784~It is explicitly required that all such information is available to the telescopes software and is capable of being available to all users of the telescopes, subject only to restrictions with respect to updating.
10~It must also be possible to restrict user access to such information.
3~In particular also, the meteorological information coming from a weather station should be available centrally.
19680~Detector data must be acquired and stored in the most effective way technology will allow effectiveness should be evaluated in terms of cost, space requirements, longevity, and speed.
3~This shall lead to the deﬁnition of a telescopes standard, used on all instruments.
2~In general, operational overheads must be kept as low as possible, to maximize actual observing times.
36~Intermediate storage of raw data in memory on different nodes and in different formats should be kept to a minimum.
1344~There must be at least two copies one to secure data as acquired and one to do assessment of data quality on line (this last copy preferably on removable media).
64~The link chosen to transfer data should represent as small a bottleneck as possible for data acquisition.
16~Normally, raw data will be acquired and stored as such for quick look evaluations.
64~There might be cases where fast preprocessing is needed and where raw data will not be stored as such, but in a preprocessed format.
11280~Astronomical data will have to be transported between system and the home institutes of visiting astronomers in FITS format (as deﬁned by NOST 100 1.0, "Deﬁnition of the Flexible Image Transport System (FITS)", NASA Science Ofﬁce of Standards and Technology).
76~TV data concerning site monitoring and voice need to be capable of being available at all operations facilities.
16~It will be a question of interfacing and bandwidth costs whether such information is actually available at a speciﬁc location.
12~It is not a requirement that point to point video be available between telescopes operations facilities.
61~It is a requirement that voice connectivity, perhaps point to point, be available on a permanent connection.
2668~Other astronomical information such as that coming from sky ﬁeld monitors, autoguider cameras and sky monitoring devices such as cloud and seeing monitors shall also be capable of being available.
5491918~The capacity of the system can be expressed in terms of nodes, which is deﬁned as the number of workstations, or in terms of users, which is deﬁned as the sum total of users at all the nodes.
13~Each node will have the capability to run at all operation levels.
72~When the telescopes telescope is used in its normal observing mode, there will be a single operator node for the telescope and two data acquisition and instrument control nodes.
640~Some tests might be run in parallel on instruments that do not have the light beam at that moment, so in principle additional nodes might be working at the same time.
48~The system will provide for one auxiliary data acquisition and instrument control nodes.
1~In addition, the system must support off site observing modes.
156~The system will provide for a single off site data acquisition and instrument control node to be located at either the telescopes Site Support or Base Facility.
33~One supervisor will monitor the system, and other users might need to monitor the running of observing programs, locally or remotely.
8~The system will provide for a single local monitoring node and a single remote monitoring node.
4746~The telescopes control software shall allow simultaneous operation of up to six active control nodes and up to two more monitoring nodes (one local and one remote) without appreciable degradation of performance.
1575504~In practice the operation and facilities foreseen so far for the telescopes will limit this number to a maximum in the order of three active nodes, but the telescopes computers and software shall be capable of coping with the load of 10 active nodes, should the case arise
51~Every command must be acknowledged in a positive or negative way before the occurrence of the corresponding action within given response times.
36~There must be automatic procedures to implement startup and shutdown of the telescope and instruments.
1~These must allow startup and shutdown of instruments independently of the telescope and without affecting the telescope operation.
1~Reconﬁguration procedures must exist, to change the observing environment.
24~The deﬁnition of the observing environments must be dynamic, that is feasible during operations without the need to restart everything.
1856~Operations staff have privileges to change the environment, meaning selecting a suitable combination of instrumentsThe operational software should know which subsystems are installed and operational at any given time.
4~The user interface deﬁnes the way users see the telescopes system.
56~Given the large number of instruments, there can be many different stations which are active at the same time.
1232~It is essential for operational and maintenance reasons that, in spite of the obvious differences of the setups and commands available, the same philosophy is applied throughout.
348~This calls for a homogeneous user interface, which can be achieved only by applying the same user interface tools to the whole project, providing the telescopes user interface's ‘look and feel'.
3~The user interface should not be seen as a package linked to a speciﬁc computer.
4212~Given the requirement to be able to access the telescopes from several points, the user interface should rather be seen as a package to be callable from a large number of stations, depending on where a user is.
48~It should also be network transparent so that it does not matter where it is being run.
1~The user interface tools shall be based on standards, which will be portable across different computer hardware platforms.
92~The intent of a portability requirement is to facilitate migrating existing and future system systems to different hardware as the need arises.
9781~It is the current intent to limit the selection of computer hardware platforms to as few as is practical
6119~The telescopes software covers all aspects of control and data acquisition related to the telescope, instruments, and auxiliary instrumentation.
12~It also covers all the operational aspects of the telescopes, including on line scheduling and rescheduling.
32~There is also software which, although it will be interfaced to the telescopes, is referred to as external.
2~The telescopes software must interface to the external software and clearly the interfaces are fully part of the telescopes software.
640~Quick look data processing should be provided on the telescopes, with procedures suitable for fast on line data preprocessing.
3656~A prerequisite for this is that acquired data are made available as directly as possible in a common format, and that all additional data related to an exposure and logging information are made available on line at the same time.
272~Quick look should be usable within exposure sequences to provide results and feedback parameters to the control software in a programmed way, without the need for manual intervention.
20~This document does not try to be speciﬁc about the requirements for Quick look other than that it should be synchronous.
732~Near line processing should be available for simple data reductions required for data integrity validation (that is remove instrument and observatory effects so the observer can make decisions about further observing actions).
8~This data reduction proceeds sequentially through requests, but asynchronously from data acquistion.
44~In particular, data acquisition takes precedence over near line data reduction.
16~Off line pixel processing for full data reduction should also exist at the telescopes site, but does not have any interface to the telescopes software.
64~The Astronomical communities have made considerable investments in image processing software, and therefore, compatibility with and adaptations to these packages must be sought.
904~It should also be noted that some telescopes subsystems, such as adaptive optics, may require their own special on line pixel processing software, which is better deﬁned in the requirements for those subsystems.
106380~This is largely due to the difﬁculty of applying on line the same algorithms used for full off line reductions, in general due to the time critical nature of the image processing needs.
52~The same situation might also occur with other instruments, where speciﬁc observer support software has to be foreseen for on line use.
4536~In all these cases the speciﬁc on line (quick look) software development shall be seen as a subset of the development for the off line data reduction system, to avoid as far as possible duplication of development effort.
8~The output format of the telescopes data must be compatible with the system archive requirements.
80~As comparisons with previous data might be of great value and affect the actual observing program, on line interactive access to the data archiving system should exist, so that access to this database is possible for telescopes users.
42~The speciﬁc types of data available ﬂat ﬁelds, calibrations, science exposures, etc.
100~the amount of a speciﬁc exposure available header only, averaged exposure, complete raw data set and the time frame within which such data will be made available same night, weekly, after proprietary period will be established by the system Archiving Requirements.
2~Computer access to star catalogues is also required, so that an automatic selection of candidate guide and standard stars can be made.
6~The telescopes software must be able to interface with all commercial software packages available on the telescopes and integrated into the telescopes operation.
1184~A relevant example of such a package is a general database management system (DBMS), where operational information such as schedules, logs, problem reports and maintenance information related to various pieces of equipment should be kept.
16~The LAN shall support the majority of the telescopes system internal communication needs.
8504~This LAN must be capable of dealing both with the data bandwidths required (at peak and on average) and with the required response times and synchronization needs.
3780~This LAN shall be supplemented with a Local Time Bus, for distribution of absolute and relative time signals, and both a digital reﬂective memory bus and an analog event based bus, for distribution of signals with requirements not satisﬁed by a LAN.
2~Peer to peer connectivity should only be used to overcome a demonstrated performance problem.
80~Bypassing the hierarchy (connected between grandmother and granddaughter with no path through the mother) should only be used for transmission of status information or bulk data, not control ﬂow
160~It is envisaged that observing astronomers who have travelled to the telescopes site will make use of the telescopes control room facilities.
1104~This will allow centralized support and coordination of their operations, providing both operations support for individual instruments and supervision for all of them.
25~To allow coordination both locally at the telescopes site between the various users and with remote users, the software shall support access to the system from any user station.
2092~It will then be an operational decision, implying privileges and priorities for the various categories of users, and deﬁnition of what a given user can actually do.
2924~Access from any user station will make user stations in principle identical and software conﬁgurable as the user station of this or that subsystem.
5~This should greatly simplify the coordination problem posed by the large number of simultaneous users.
8~Individual instruments must be able to run fully independently.
272~Telescope software at the two telescopes must be maintained to be identical in the upper layers (even if hardware should differ).
9~Additions of new instruments should aim, as a goal, at introducing no modiﬁcation to already operational parts.
2~Modiﬁcations should be conﬁned to the operational procedures and should not affect the bulk of the existing software.
4~Switching to different conﬁgurations must be possible at any time with appropriate procedures.
6~There must be easy procedures to reconﬁgure the system when subsystems are modiﬁed or removed.
32~The number of main packages of software must be kept to a minimum to facilitate maintenance, but compatibly with the need to have the right degree of modularity.
4~Commercial and public domain packages should be used whenever possible.
9~Existing software packages should be reused wherever possible.
7~Existing software expertise should be consulted whenever possible.
1~All software which does not directly control speciﬁc hardware must be written as machine independent, portable code.
112~Even for microprocessor software, the software should be hardware independent, to allow a later choice of the target microprocessors.
3~To allow for expansion and maintenance, telescopes standards must be deﬁned for the on line software and the development environment.
1~On line version control must be implemented.
16~That is, the version control system must be available to recover or restore versions at all times.
2~At boot time, the telescopes software shall check the consistency of versions of all the various software components.
2~Table driven software should be used whenever possible, to avoid unnecessary compilations.
3546~Whether the software is table driven, message driven, or a combination of both is a function of the individual work packages and deﬁned in the appropriate work package description.
148~Changing system constants, such as arcseconds or bit for an encoder, shall not require recompiling but will be updated as part of system startup, and, for some constants, will be modiﬁable during operation.
14~System status parameters will be maintained to an extent that will allow restarting the system and regaining the previous state.
4~The extent of duplication of the previous state will be dictated by safety and practical considerations.
4~Strict checking should be applied on this to preserve maintainability and reconﬁguration of the system.
27952~The GSR sets as a requirement 2% and a goal 1% for total system downtime due to failures, this translates to a maximum of 15 minutes per night or 1 night per month of downtime.
22~This in turn sets quite stringent requirements on both MTBF and MTTR for the software and controls.
6064~To guarantee maximum availability of the control system, retry procedures must be embodied in the software in case of error or failure to achieve recovery on line whenever possible.
64~Should recovery also fail, the error or failure has to be reported in a clear form (to identify the cause of the problem) and the system shall put itself into a safe state, whenever a safety aspect might be involved.
16000~To avoid unnecessary downtime, it must be possible for the system to reconﬁgure itself in order to continue observing, in a different mode if required, given the failure of a single non critical subsystem.
257~To increase software robustness, range checking and validity checking shall be supported before execution of any input command.
243~This must be possible ahead of time, preparing observing sequences for automatic observations and simulating observations to estimate results.
1260~On line pre checking of the operational status of equipment should be done prior to sending critical or time consuming commands.
8814~It must be possible to apply continuous monitoring to all subsystems on request, both when in operation and when idle, to check their operational status.
6~A measure of fault rates should be done during commissioning to establish baseline rates for system reliability monitoring.
266~There are to be recovery procedures to restart after error failure.
397~The system should be constantly monitoring active subsystems to be sure they are operating correctly before sending command to each subsystem.
1~This monitoring should continue on inactive subsystems.
325~The goal for recover and or or reconﬁguration is 5 minutes from onset of the error condition to observing again.
1~Maintenance requirements including an estimate of required resources.
1~The method of upgrading the system to add capabilities and performance.
12~Areas where upgrades are anticipated should be identiﬁed with an estimate of the required effort and resources.
4500~Each subsystem should have a background task running whenever that subsystem is operational, performing such tasks as checking power supply levels, temperatures, performance, correct responses to commands.
18~Each subsystem should provide a module for fully exercising all subsystem components, both hardware and software.
4~This module is executed automatically during start up and on demand through the deﬁned interface.
8~Problems are to be automatically reported to the OCS via the deﬁned interface.
12~There are also software modules for testing the subsystem as an integrated portion of the entire system.
27~This software would be executed on demand during maintenance operation level.
12~Quantitative maintenance requirements will be allocated to the system, subsystems, and each component.
5~The requirements must be achievable and stated in such a way that veriﬁcation is permitted.
10~All equipment shall support a programmed adjustment and maintenance interval of 30 days or longer
15574~The system Control System development effort will obey and abide by both the letter and the spirit of all applicable engineering practices, laws, regulations, and policies.
7~All necessary safety approvals will be obtained before devices will be accepted.
93~The system must be self monitoring to invoke safety monitoring to prevent risk to people or damage to equipment.
46~The software should be able to quickly bring the system to a safe state upon notiﬁcation of such danger.
9~Subsystems must be able to detect such danger and report it appropriately.
3892~In the event that the risk persists, subsystems must be able to move themselves into safe states to protect people and equipment (that is if there is a failure in the higher level systems).
558950~Safety protection must be applied whenever there is the risk that the actions of the control software could endanger people or cause damage to any telescopes subsystem, for example, by driving beyond limits or by overexposing detectors.
1~This protection, where implemented, must be independent of the software.
8~In general this will require mechanical hard stops, electrical interlocks, electrical hard limit switches, soft limit switches, software limits, and watch dogs.
1044~All hazards capable of causing death and or or loss of irreplacable equipment shall be passively interlocked.
2594~All hazards capable of causing injury and or or severe damage to equipment shall be actively interlocked, severe damage implies that repairs are not repairable at the depot level
2979600~Since the system software will be developed in stages over a period of years, and since computer technology is expected to evolve rapidly over this same period, the software is to be designed to be easily extended and upgraded with modiﬁcations to non changing components.
40~The software itself, its installation process, and its documentation must be developed with this expandability in mind, using general industry standards.
34~All software is to be developed using typical modularization and standardization techniques.
2~Each module's environment is strictly deﬁned by its interface to other components.
3~No module can rely upon information outside of this interface.
4~Module selection should be done in logical fashion to minimize the size of the interfaces between modules.
1~The on line databases can be considered part of this interface, but are only accessible through their deﬁned interfaces.
5516~The software must be strictly modular, that is the functionality of a subsystem should correspond to that which belongs to that subsystem and only to that, so that software for different subsystems can be installed and maintained independently of all the rest.
34~This is needed in particular for multi instrument operation, for example, as instruments share the same subsystems on the telescope.
8~At the same time, the possibility must exist to acquire information about other parts of the system.
3~It also important that there are no undesired interactions between subsystems.
8~This may be enforced either at the client or server interface or at the message system level.
588~The security and safety of the system should be guaranteed even in the event of failure of any component, including the higher level software.
4~The ability to reconﬁgure the software if one actuator fails is desirable.
48~Data redundancy is also a requirement, to prevent a single failure from causing the loss of collected data.
6~The goal is to minimize the effects of single point errors throughout the system.
36~As much as possible, the system is to take advantage of parallel operation to improve efﬁciency.
11138~The Telescope Control System should be capable of detecting and invoking parallel operation as it is responsible for control of all of the telescope and enclosure subsystems.
65708~The development environment for the telescopes software consists of the computer hardware and system software (operating system, languages and tools) chosen optimally to support the development model presented in the previous section on life cycle aspects.
9116~Test procedure methods have to be deﬁned in the Software Test Plan (STP), while test plans shall be written for all individual software packages and modules comprising the telescopes software.
56~Apart from the component and integration test procedures, a formal release system should exist at package and module level, which should be checkable on line by the operational procedures for consistency.
10~Every system must thus be able to supply its current version upon request.
9~This section presents the speciﬁc attributes and requirements for system software.
4~Only the high level requirements for system software are presented here.
4~Detailed speciﬁcations for the subsystems are found in the individual chapters of the Software Design Description.
10~The system maintenance philosophy is described in the Software Management Plan (SMP).
1~Preventative maintenance is scheduled as speciﬁed in the system Design Requirements Speciﬁcation.
34~All software is to be developed using typical modularization and standardization techniques.
2~In particular, each module's environment is strictly deﬁned by its interface to other components.
3~No module can rely upon information outside of this interface.
4~Module selection should be done in logical fashion to minimize the size of the interfaces between modules.
504~The on line databases can be considered part of this interface, but are only accessible Reliability and availability A measure of fault rates should be done during commissioning to establish baseline rates for system reliability monitoring.
266~There are to be recovery procedures to restart after error failure.
416~During science planning, there should be validity and feasibility checks to help ensure effective and efﬁcient use of the telescope.
1~Where appropriate, these checks should also be performed during operation.
1216~The system should be constantly monitoring active subsystems to be sure they are operating correctly before sending commands to each subsystem.
1~This monitoring should continue on inactive subsystems.
8~All telescope, instrument, and detector control information is to be available at any operation level.
157~Access times to the database are to be in the range of 2 3 msec per access.
2~Asynchronous writes are to be supported, allowing for concurrent operation.
7~Time access critical information is available in memory.
47~There is to be a consistent and logical (that is name based) access method.
6~The database must support both remote access and distributed data.
3~A fundamental criteria of system telescope operation is that it support a full implementation of remote operations.
10469~This includes remote observing, remote control of telescope, enclosure, and instruments, multipoint monitoring, remote monitoring, remote access for testing, development, diagnostics, and maintenance.
1288~It is expected that all operational capability found in on site operations is extended to remote operations, with some degradation in performance resulting from WAN bandwidth considerations.
130~This means the video data signals must be encoded digitally and transferred via the WAN to remote sites.
384~There must be some form of security to control access to system features, possibly restricting some operations to speciﬁc remote sites.
11~The observation is performed through a preplanned program requiring little or no interaction with the observer.
5~Science planning and program changes are accomplished through interactive operation.
48~Is is possible to enter interactive operation from automatic operation to handle exceptional conditions.
1026~Overall performance of the system telescope is deﬁned as the percentage of viewable time during which exposures have been taken (that is sum of all exposure times over available time for exposures).
2~To improve this performance, all possible concurrencies in system operation should be used.
2~Best use of concurrency occurs when using the Sequencer.
28~Cold start up, starting the system from scratch (including time to download all software) should take about 5 minutes.
19~This does not include time to start up the telescope or instruments.
80~Warm start up, starting from scratch but also excluding software download time should take about 1 minute.
8~Telescope start up, measured from end of cold or warm start up should be about 4 minutes.
2~Instrument start up, measured from end of telescope start up, should take 2 minutes or less.
60~There must be a way to shut down all subsystems (hardware and software).
266~All start ups and shut downs are to be automatically logged with time stamps, to allow for statistics on system availability.
1696~It must be possible to log engineering data at up to 200 Hz rates for short periods of time.
2~This data must be available to external software packages for analysis.
250888~Long term logging of engineering data must be possible at slower (1 Hz or less) rates, into a common format (baselined as SYBASE).
7~Fatal errors occur if there is no acceptable recovery procedure that will allow operation to proceed.
8~Under fatal error conditions, the system falls back to a safe "backup" state requiring human intervention for restart.
13~Under serious errors, the system does not need to move off line, but the current operation cannot be completed.
4~Serious errors require human intervention to restart full operation.
2~All other unexpected conditions result in warnings that are properly logged.
732~In addition to start up procedures, there must be well deﬁned recovery procedures for any subsystem that has become inoperative.
20~Command retries must be included in the system for most common timeouts or noresponse conditions.
3~These retries should occur automatically in the command handling to avoid unnecessary error conditions.
18~Normally, there is no recovery possible from a fatal error except to shut down and then restart the subsystem.
304~In the case of an instrument failure, it may be possible to continue operation by rescheduling to use observations that do not require that particular instrument
10~For serious errors, it may be possible to continue operation with degraded performance.
26~Failure of automatic tracking may require manual tracking other errors may result in operation with a different instrument
1~Under normal conditions, the number of warnings should be small.
335~The system should monitor the rate of warning messages since an increase might indicate that some tuning or maintenance is appropriate.
7~Ideally, such conditions should be noted by the subsystems before reaching the OCS level.
1~Failure conditions should not cascade.
10~That is, failure of one subsystem should not affect other, working, subsystems, including communication links.
126~The THEMAS system shall control the heating and cooling units that are defined as part of the THEMAS system.
88~The definitions of the individual heating and cooling systems reside in an initialization file.
12~The system shall read this file and the definitions shall be derived from the initialization data in the file.
3044~The THEMAS system shall use the information contained in the initialization data file to determine which heating and cooling units are part of the THEMAS system.
2970~There is one heating and cooling unit that corresponds to one thermostat in each of four quadrants on each of three floors of the office building.
11~Each thermostat shall have a unique identifier by which that thermostat is identified in the THEMAS system.
2~This procedure will load these definitions into the THEMAS software.
160~Each quadrant of each floor shall have a thermostat which is to be used to provide temperature data to the THEMAS system.
7~The initialization file shall contain a unique identifier for each thermostat that the system is to monitor.
2~These identifiers shall be read from the initialization file and loaded into the THEMAS system during the initialization process.
3412~There shall be a maximum number of heating or cooling units that can be on at any given time.
10~This procedure loads the maximum number of concurrently running units allowed.
1762~The maximum number of heating or cooling units that can run concurrently shall reside in an initialization file.
4~The maximum number of concurrently running units shall be read from the initialization file and stored in the THEMAS system.
12~The trigger value is used in combination with the current temperature to determine when a heating or cooling unit shall be turned on or off.
1~The trigger values shall reside in an initialization file.
26~This procedure shall read the initialization file and establish the trigger value from the data in that file.
4~The THEMAS system shall ensure the temperature reported by a given thermostat shall not exceed a maximum deviation value of 3 degrees Fahrenheit.
1~The overtemperature values shall reside in an initialization file.
26~This procedure shall read the initialization file and establish the overtemperature value from the data in that file.
4~The THEMAS system shall only respond to temperatures that are within a reasonable value.
1~The valid temperature range value shall reside in an initialization file.
26~This procedure shall read the initialization file and establish the valid temperature range from the data in it.
94~When the THEMAS system is initialized, it shall first turn off all the heating and cooling units.
18~Then, it shall check all the thermostats and determine if any thermostat's settings require a heating or cooling unit to be turned on back on.
2048~This process shall first determine a known state of all the heating and cooling units by issuing a request to turn off all the units.
134~It shall then read the current temperature values and current temperature settings of each thermostat.
5502~If the settings reflect a need for a heating or cooling unit to be turned o n, the process shall issue a request to turn on the appropriate unit.
23~This determination shall be made in accordance with the rules outlined in section 3.1.4.1 and 3.1.4.2.
13~The THEMAS system shall only respond to temperatures from the thermostats that are within the specified valid range.
284~Two types of temperature data shall be recognized from the thermostats: 1) the temperature setting and 2) the current temperature.
4~This module shall process both types of data.
240~A current temperature value that is received from an individual thermostat shall be compared to the valid temperature range values.
5015328~If the current temperature value is strictly less than the lower value of the valid temperature range or if the received temperature value is strictly greater than the upper value of the valid temperature range, then the THEMAS system shall identify the current temperature value as an invalid temperature and shall output an invalid temperature status.
1~Otherwise, the THEMAS system shall output a valid temperature status.
328~A temperature setting value that is received from an individual thermostat shall be compared to the valid temperature range values.
166364820~If the temperature setting value is strictly less than the lower value of the valid temperature range or if the temperature setting value is strictly greater than the upper value of the valid temperature range, then the THEMAS system shall identify the temperature setting as an invalid temperature and shall output an invalid temperature status.
11~Otherwise, the THEMAS system shall realize the value for that thermostat's temperature setting.
494~The THEMAS system shall determine wh en a reported temperature or a changed temperature setting exceeds the limits set by the overtemperature values.
2~Temperatures that exceed the overtemperature limits shall be reported as such.
2~Temperatures that do not exceed these limits shall be output for subsequent processing.
3~The THEMAS system shall compare the reported temperature value to the temperature setting and detect when the temperature value exceeds the specified limits.
96320~To clarify these conditions, the following definitions will be used: LO : Lower Overtemperature Value = TSET OD UO : Upper Overtemperature Value = TSET + OD If T = LO or UO = T then the THEMAS system shall recognize this condition as the temperature limit has been exceeded.
5~In this case this process shall output the condition of the temperature limit having been exceeded.
1~If LO = T = UO, then this process shall output the temperature status.
676~When the current temperature value exceeds the current temperature setting by a predefined amount, the THEMAS system shall activate the appropriate heating or cooling units.
3060~There are two conditions for each individual thermostat that shall be tested for: 1) the thermostat's settings are satisfied and 2) the thermostat's temperature indica tes it requires a heating or cooling unit to be turned on.
1024~To clarify these conditions, the following definitions will be used: LT : Lower Trigger Value = TSET TD UT : Upper Trigger Value = TSET + TD Condition 1: LT = T = UT This condition indicates the thermostat's current temperature setting is satisfied.
48~If this condition is true, then the module shall output a request to turn off both the heating unit and the cooling unit.
318~Condition 2: LO = LT or UT T = UO This condition the need for a heating or cooling unit to be turned on.
120~If this condition is true, then this module shall output a request to turn on the heating unit if LO = T LT or the cooling unit if UT T = UO.
277~The THEMAS system shall control each of the heating and cooling units that are defined for the system.
6~The THEMAS system shall limit the number of heating or cooling units t hat may be running simultaneously.
30~The THEMAS system shall maintain the ON or OFF status of each heating and cooling unit.
60~When a request to turn on or off a heating or cooling unit, the following processing will occur.
15~When a request to turn on a heating or cooling unit is received, the system shall determine if the request can be honored.
594~If the maximum number of heating or cooling units is already running, the request will be added to a LIFO queue.
2790~If the maximum number of heating or cooling units is not running, this process will generate a request to turn on the requested unit.
570~When a request to turn off a heating or cooling unit is received, this process shall check the queue of waiting heating and cooling requests.
160~If the queue is not empty, this process shall remove one request from the LIFO queue and check the current state of the thermostat for which the queued request was made.
108~If that thermostat still needs a heating o r cooling unit turned on, this process shall submit a request to turn that unit on.
303~When a request for a heating unit or cooling to be turned is denied, an event shall be generated and the THEMAS system shall record that event.
10~The information in these events will be used for creating statistical reports.
90~This procedure shall realize the thermostat and heating or cooling information and use this information to generate a specific system event.
7574~This system event shall consist of a description of the event type (a request denied event), a designation of the thermostat that made the request, and a designation of the heating or cooling unit that was not turned on.
126~The THEMAS system shall control the heating and cooling units that are designated as part of the THEMAS system.
48~When a request to turn on or off a heating or cooling unit is made, this process shall generate the appropriate request to carry out that request.
2233~This request shall include the designation of the heating or cooling unit and a flag to indicate whether that unit is to be turned on or off.
12~Once a request to turn on or off a heating or cooling unit, the THEMAS system shall provide the necessary control signal for the unit.
3~This control signal shall also provide an indication of the unit's status at the requesting thermostat.
4780~This process shall recognize the values for the requested heating or cooling unit and the ON or OFF status that is being requested.
13~The necessary signal to the heating or cooling unit will be generated.
8~Since the interface to control the units has not been defined, the part of this process that will issue the signal is designated as TBD(to be determined).
392~In order to provide an indication of the status of the heating or cooling unit back to the requesting thermostat, this procedure shall output the status information of the heating or cooling unit.
90~In order to provide an operational history and statistical reports, this process shall generate an event each time a change is made to the status of a heating or cooling unit.
1646~This ev ent shall contain the identification of the heating or cooling unit whose status is being changed.
20~There are two events that shall result in an alarm condition: 1) an invalid temperature value is reported from a thermostat, or 2) the reported temperature has exceeded the defined limits.
4~This process shall determine which alarm event is to be generated.
24~When the THEMAS system detects a request for an alarm, this process shall detect which of the two alarms are being requested.
6~If the system detects an invalid temperature, this process shall output a continuous series of alternating 500 Hz and 700 Hz beeps on the supervisor's computer.
5~Each beep shall have a three quarter second duration.
3~This series of beeps shall continue until the supervisor manually resets the alarm through the supervisor's interface window.
4~If the system detects a temperature limit has been exceeded, this process shall output a continuous series of alternating 1000 Hz and 1500 Hz beeps on the supervisor's computer.
2~Each beep shall have a one half second duration.
3~This series of beeps shall continue until the supervisor manually resets the alarm through the supervisor's interface window.
2~Each time an alarm is requested, an alarm event shall be recorded.
5~This event shall be used to provide operational and statistical reports about the system.
10~For each event that is generated, the THEMAS system shall identify each event and generate the appropriate event data.
3~When an event occurs, the THEMAS system shall identify the event type and format an appropriate event message.
18~The THEMAS system shall record each event by a description and the current system time for that event.
6~This information shall be recorded in a Microsoft Access database that shall reside on the supervisor's computer.
41~The THEMAS system shall provide the supervisor a mechanism to change the temperature setting of any of the thermostats in the system.
4~The supervisor's interface shall display the available thermostats and their individual current temperature settings.
100~The supervisor shall be able to select one of the thermostats and select a value for the current temperature from a list of valid temperatures.
4500~The THEMAS shall provide the ability for the supervisor to select between two different types of reports: 1) the operational history of the THEMAS system for the past twelve months and 2) a statistical summary for any selected mont h.
11~The percentage of time each heating and cooling unit was on for each day of that month.
1953~For each thermometer, the ratio of the number of requests for a heating and cooling unit that was granted to the number of requests for a heating or cooling unit that was denied.
205952~Environmental Mode: This is the real time operations that must react to varying degrees of readiness to full scale wartime operations such as crisis planning with the use of heterogeneous data types and sources, transfer capabilities, data management services.
1~XML Services shall be segmented.
30~COE sponsors shall adhere to compliance level requirements described in the I&RTS.
60792~In the fixed (static) mode of operation (base or data processing megacenter), the data management services shall have the capability of being tuned by on site personnel to adjust for varying workloads and sizes of associated databases.
570~These workloads and databases are expected to change more frequently and to a greater extent than for processing associated with deployed units
39360~In a changing (dynamic) environment, such as with deployed units, the workload and database sizes may be more predetermined (given a more precise mission) and require access to fewer data management administrative capabilities than needed in a fixed environment.
6~The XS shall have the ability to redefine or reset names of connect descriptors to database server instances.
16~Connect descriptors are fully qualified object names and include address (protocol or host or port) and instance name.
8692~In a degraded communications environment, there is a need, for example, to be able to reset session time out values if the data management services are being accessed by users affected by the communications degradation.
16~At a minimum, the session time out values shall be user definable and be able to be reset prior to initialization of a user session.
15044~The goal is to provide the option of dynamically changing session time values based on current communications performance identified by capabilities of the network management or DBMS.
16~End User Mode: Portion of XS services shall be used by various classes of users: data consumers, data and database managers, network information infrastructure resource managers.
286~Some of these uses of the data management services will entail unique requirements that shall be fulfilled within the capability of XS services.
8616~Maintenance Mode: This mode includes modification and or or addition of application data segments, user permission, privileges, and restructuring storage and memory areas.
26~In addition, maintenance also shall pertain to shutdown, open not mounted and online or off line implementations, modifications, upgrade, or other related actions.
4752~The data management services shall support managing various types of data, database architectures and platforms that includes hardware and software at the specified sites.
288~In support of training activities, the data management services shall provide for the same processing as would be encountered in a production environment.
32~However, access to the database may be via a training application access to the DBMS rather than from the production mission application.
47512~Produce and display submittal forms as part of the Information Resource Submittal Package from the web containing the following Information Resource artifacts: XML Tag Specification, XML Spec (that is DTD, DCD etc.), Sample of XML document of the tag to be submitted.
68~The Package is to be compressed and emailed or sent ftp to an addressee.
139~Download Information Resource Submittal Package from the web containing forms, instructions, and tools for submission to XML Registry.
168~Submit prescribed metadata related to information resource type, information resource association, status code, data types specified and other related information specified in Appendix A within a combination of forms.
736~These forms are part of the Information Resource Submittal Package containing the following Information Resource artifacts: XML Tag Specification, XML Spec (that is DTD, DCD etc.), Sample of XML document of the tag to be submitted.
68~The Package is to be compressed and emailed or sent ftp to an addressee.
2~Ancestor or Descendant relationship: Provide the capability to view a Tag's origin
4~Uses or Used by relationship: Provide the capability to view a complex Container Tag's parent or child relationship
12~Data type information: Provide the capability to view a tag's data type and related information.
1~Versioning relationship: Provide the capability to view an Information resource's versions
220~Reference Sets: Provide the capability to view text related to the domai values or the related reference set
19~Amplifying information: Provide the capability to view other information resources such as ERwin models, DTDs, documents, etc., which describe or otherwise provide amplifying information.
6~View the XML Tags via a tree or hierarchy structure or tabular format.
68~View the XML Tags by giving the user multiple search options to find a specific Tag.
33~View the XML tags by giving the user the search option to find all tags of a given subscriber or author.
73~Each Information Resource will have its own web page to allow the user to view all pertinent information, according to its information resource type.
640~View the Information Resource Submittal Package containing the following Information Resource artifacts: XML Tag Specification, XML Spec (that is DTD, DCD etc.), Sample of XML document of the tag to be submitted.
12~Display an XML Tag Specification form to the author of a given information resource.
3~This XML Tag Spec will be used for inputting the requesting information for a specific Information Resource.
2~Provide capabilities to download the XML Tags or other selected Information Resources.
336~Catalog entities and attributes within servers to enable browsing, searching, retrieving of data related to XML sources.
3~Process ANSI standard SQL as specified in FIPS PUB 127 2
116~Establish rules to ensure maximum semantic understanding of a term as it appears in an XML document
99~Provide a capability to subscribe for notification of changes to Communities of Interest (COE) or Information Resources.
162~Establish acceptable naming convention not to be in conflict with the DOD data standards convention and establish a relationship to other naming conventions.
1984~Create a naming structure within the COE architecture to express the context and relationship of the naming convention to other naming conventions specified in the I&RTS.
6132~Define a set of metadata tags, information attributed to metadata tags (meta metadata) and other related terms for the maintenance and control of XML tags.
2~Design the schema for an XML document
1~Generate a document that includes (by ref or by value) a schema
10~Develop scheme to permit dynamic cross referencing and indexing of XML objects.
2~Disassemble document to materialize different query results into different tree structure
19~Transmit sufficient metadata to construct alternate, semantically valid views (for example, XSL)
8~The Registry shall provide standard APIs as specified in Appendix B.
4~The XS function shall provide standard APIs as specified in Appendix C.
2~The XS shall internally interface (transparent to the operator) with the existing data elements of the DBIF, DAC, and COTS RDBMS products.
1~The Registry software shall be portable and required to execute on COE compliant platforms.
37~Personnel requirements shall be determined by the developers of the system in which the XS module is embedded
100~Training requirements shall be determined by the developers of the system in which the XS module is embedded.
4~The XS developer is responsible for software maintenance, software support, and software updates.
6~The DISA Configuration Manager (CM) is responsible for distribution of the XS product to system developers.
11~The XS software shall be delivered in accordance with DII COE guidelines.
154952~The system will be capable of controlling the Predator and Outrider AVs with a single control system, using existing military services standard hardware and software, and supporting interfaces with various C4I systems.
23~The system shall consist of the system workstation Hardware Configuration Items (HWCIs), system Computer Software Configuration Items (CSCIs), and additional system Support HWCIs and CSCIs.
47~All system HWCI's and CSCI's shall be Year 2000 compliant.
9200~The primary function of the system is to provide command and control of the payload, Air Vehicle (AV), data link, and other necessary support equipment in order to employ tactical UAVs to conduct reconnaissance, surveillance, target acquisition, and target identification missions.
4296~The system will interface with and export and disseminate payload data to military supported units via external (not part of system) tactical communications systems, and C4I systems.
4820~Communications procedures, formats, and interfaces will be interoperable with selected standard DoD C4I systems, architectures, and protocols.
2492~The operational capabilities to be performed by the system will be determined by task analysis in accordance with MIL STD 1388 Task 401 as a guide based on a thorough understanding of Outrider and Predator mission requirements.
8~Tasks will be evaluated and allocated based on operator skills and proficiencies.
326~The initial system task analysis will produce a system baseline which will be optimized by engineering analysis and operator evaluations.
7680~The system shall meet the applicable capability and characteristic criteria established by the Operational Requirements Document (ORD) CAF 003 90 I A for the RQ 1A Predator Medium Altitude Endurance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle or System (MAE UAV) and the Close Range – Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (CR TUAV).
3~Appendix B and C identify applicable capability and characteristic criteria to system.
54~The system shall provide software capabilities and hardware configurations necessary to fulfill the operational tasking requirements across the 5 levels of interaction.
8~The states of operation of the system shall include Startup, Operation, and Shutdown.
1~The system states shall not exist concurrently.
4~Upon application of power the system shall enter the Startup State.
32~The Startup State shall be comprised of the following modes: Normal Startup Mode and Recovery Startup Mode.
44~The system will execute the particular startup mode which corresponds with the manner in which the system Software was halted.
60~When the system Software is terminated normally the system shall enter the Normal Startup Mode of operation upon application of power.
108~When the system software is halted due to an unplanned power interruption as well as abnormal program termination, then the system shall enter the Recovery Startup Mode upon application of power.
1~During startup, the system shall determine which of the 5 levels of interaction are achievable by the system configuration.
50~Levels of interaction higher than those achievable by a particular system configuration shall be prohibited.
38~The system shall inform the operator if the operator attempts to execute a function prohibited as a result of the determined level of interaction.
115928~When executing in the Normal Startup Mode, the system shall provide the system functionality necessary to initialize the system to place it in the Operations State within 60 seconds from the time power is supplied and the system application is launched.
320~Initialization of the system HWCIs shall include startup of HWCIs, download of software, startup of CSCIs, execution of Startup FD or L, and establishment of the state of readiness of all interfaces.
32~The system in the Recovery Startup Mode shall provide the system functionality to resume the Operations State within 45 seconds.
95~10 Recovery of the system HWCIs shall include startup of HWCIs, download of software, startup of CSCIs, and establishment of the state of readiness of all interfaces.
40~The system shall be capable of automatically recording system state data, interface communications and other information necessary to support event reconstruction.
926640~For recovery from abnormal termination, system shall prompt the operator to select the type of recovery to be executed: Resume in the Same Modes And Data, Resume in the Same Modes but Review and Modify the Command Data as Necessary or, Perform a Command Shutdown and Startup Via the Normal Startup Mode.
30~When in the Operations State the system shall be capable of operating in three modes: normal operations mode, training operations mode, and maintenance operations mode.
2~The Operations State modes shall not exist concurrently.
64~The operator shall have the capability to command the system to the Shutdown State from all modes under the Operations State.
7168~The system hardware and software shall execute periodic Fault Detection or Location (FD or L) while in the Normal Operations Mode and Training Mode, to include a periodic determination of level of interaction..
528~Functions under the Normal Operations Mode shall operate concurrently without precluding or excluding any of the other functions, in accordance with allowable operations as determined by the appropriate levels of interaction.
528~Functions under the Training Operations Mode shall operate concurrently without precluding or excluding any of the other functions, in accordance with allowable operations as determined by the appropriate levels of interaction.
580800~In the Maintenance Operations Mode, if computer workstation Human Computer Interface (HCI) is required, the system shall support the following functions: Functions, except for software upgrade and software debug, under the Maintenance Operations Mode shall operate concurrently without precluding or excluding any of the other functions in accordance with allowable operations as determined by the appropriate levels of interaction.
24~13 Conduct AV maintenance, Conduct payload maintenance, Conduct Data Link Terminal maintenance, Conduct workstation and peripheral equipment maintenance, Perform Fault Detection or Location (FD or L), Perform Software Upgrades, Perform Software Debug and Monitoring
1281997~Upon the selection of a shutdown command the system shall enter the Shutdown State, which will cause the system to be placed in a condition where power can be removed without impacting operations as well as causing damage to the system, and from which restart of the system can be accomplished normally..
7624~Shutdown of the system shall include storage as well as deletion, as specified by the operator, of mission data files, shutdown of appropriate functions, shutdown of HCIs, and proper termination of all active interfaces.
6~There shall be no modes of operation in the shutdown state.
349536~The system will provide the hardware and software necessary to allow the operator to conduct the following major functions 1) mission planning, 2) mission control and monitoring, 3) payload product management, 4) targeting, and 5) C4I system interface.
7~The system shall have the functionality to allow the operator to generate a UAV mission plan.
58~The system shall have the functionality to receive and process UAV mission plans from service specific mission planning systems.
369166~The system Mission plan shall include all necessary information required to be interoperable with the service specific mission planning systems including the Tactical Aircraft Mission Planning System (TAMPS), Aviation Mission Planning System (AMPS), and Air Force Mission Support System (AFMSS).
14~The system shall have the functionality to transmit UAV mission plans to service specific mission planning systems.
1440~The system shall facilitate automated processing of mission plan data received via C4I interfaces in order to extract the appropriate mission planning data.
40~The system shall have the functionality to receive and process UAV mission plans from other systems..
3~The system shall have the functionality to transmit UAV mission plans to other systems.
47~The system shall be capable of storing a minimum of 500 mission plans under unique names to allow for later retrieval.
2648~The system mission planning function shall provide a graphical user interface that gives the operator the ability to define waypoints on a map based display using a pointing device with full keyset redundancy..
189~The system shall provide the capability to compute the range and bearing between two geographic positions on the map display.
1992~As an objective, the system shall have the capability to import as well as create and modify map display overlays for fire support coordination measures, airspace control measures, and threat identification measures.
3064784~Upon completion of radar cross section analysis and characterization by the Government for each UAV type, system shall utilize a UAV signature versus threat lookup table (database) that identities the lethality of the threat to the UAV, and shall provide the capability of displaying aircraft signature versus threat, before and during flight.
1~The system shall permit dynamic mission and payload retasking during all phases of operational mission execution.
55026~The system shall allow the operator to enter as well as review mission plan parameters, including AV flight parameters, payload control parameters, data link control parameters, AV VCR control parameters (if applicable to the selected AV), and AV loiter patterns.
12480~The system shall provide the capability to enter system configuration characteristics in the mission plan, to include selected AV type, AV identification number, selected payload type, ground control authorization information, and required communications pre set for data links, tactical communications, and C4I data dissemination.
573192~The system shall provide the system functionality necessary to upload a flight route plan and payload plan (if applicable) to the AV via the selected system data link as well as direct ground connection.
12380~system shall provide the capability for the operator to retrieve a mission plan for viewing, modification, as well as deletion at the operator's discretion, and allow the operator to save the mission plan under a different name, for future retrieval.
2100~The system shall automatically check the validity of the intended mission plan prior to being uploaded including altitude constraints, payload constraints, data link range constraints, airspace restrictions, fuel limitations, threat constraints, data link terrain masking effects, and Loss of Link (LOL) Plan.
928~The system shall notify the operator of all discrepancies found during the mission plan check as well as indicate successful completion of the mission plan check.
8~The system shall provide the capability to override validation faults after the fault is acknowledged by the operator.
76~The system shall allow the operator to set the LOL delay timer(s) during mission planning.
20~The LOL delay is the time from when the AV detects an unplanned LOL to the time it initiates LOL procedures.
18~The system shall provide the capability to print waypoint data in alphanumeric format.
38~The Flight Route Plan, as a minimum, shall include AV flight path information, Loss of Link plan, AV VCR control tasking (if applicable to the selected AV), and data link control information.
69~The system shall allow the operator to define the desired AV route in waypoint format, and shall provide the capability to include up to 500 waypoints in each flight route plan.
1~The system shall provide the capability to display mission waypoints and flight path graphically.
8~The system shall provide the capability to enter waypoint data in alphanumeric format.
6~The system shall present to the operator the estimated time of arrival and fuel status at each programmed waypoint of the proposed mission plan.
108~At every waypoint and every 5 minutes, the system shall compute the AV's flight range based on remaining fuel.
34352~The system shall analyze the flight route plan selected for uplink to determine that the flight constraints of the AV and the limitation of the data link are not violated prior to transmission of the flight route plan to the AV.
112~The algorithmic accuracy of all flight planning calculations shall not deviate by more than 10% when compared with a mission flown by a validated 6 degree of freedom air vehicle simulator.
22~The flight route plan, as a minimum, shall provide the necessary AV commands to autonomously execute a programmed flight and return to a designated recovery area.
48~The system shall provide the operator with an interactive graphics and map based flight route planning capability.
22~The system shall provide the capability to create waypoints that define the desired flight path, define AV Altitude and Airspeed associated with the waypoint.
153732~The system shall provide the capability of displaying overlays each containing 100 simultaneous icons of known fire support coordination zones, airspace control zones, threat systems, and displaying the threat engagement envelopes with associated radar terrain masking for those threats.
14~A de clutter capability shall be provided that allows the operator to display only a selected number of the most significant threats.
12~The system shall provide the capability to modify the maximum number of threats displayed, when de clutter is selected.
18~The system shall provide the capability to display waypoint data in alphanumeric format.
500~The system shall have the capability to load a map onto the display, to zoom in and out, to scroll, to print, and to clear a map on the map display.
2~The system shall provide the operator with a clearly indicated map scale.
1980~The system shall be capable of displaying the positions of the icons in Lat Lon, Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM), and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) formats and provide conversion to multiple spheroid scales.
4~The system shall provide the capability to graphically display Line of Sight versus terrain profile (DTED).
784~For those payloads identified in Table 3 2, the system shall be able to generate payload planning information to be uplinked to the AV separate from a flight route plan.
6700~The system shall provide the system functionality necessary to generate a payload plan that, as a minimum, shall include the following information: The system shall provide the capability to display the payload swath for the selected payload for planning purposes.
448~Payload type, Payload commands, Payload mode settings, Payload pointing commands, manual as well as automated, Payload field of view settings, manual as well as automated
70~The system will have the capability to control and monitor an AV, payload, data link, and C4I interfaces during the execution of a mission.
2~While flying two MAE AVs Beyond Line Of Sight (BLOS), the system shall provide full control functionality of each AV.
223~AV specific components used to perform ground based closed loop command and control functions for system shall be initialized upon operator selection of a specific AV.
512~The system shall transmit command and control information to the AV via the uplink to the AV, and receive AV telemetry and payload information via downlink from the AV.
94~The system shall be capable of being interoperable with Predator and Outrider UAVs across the 5 levels of UAV interaction.
36~The system shall have the capability to control and monitor multiple types of AVs.
4~system shall notify the operator when AV performance parameters are out of limits.
52~The system shall provide the capability to pass control of an AV to another system, and receive control of an AV from another system.
418~The system shall provide the capability to control the AV flight commands as well as to release the AV to an autonomous flight control mode.
4~AV telemetry data shall be available to support other system functions as required.
29~The system shall provide the capability to control the flight of the selected AV in accordance with the specific AV's operational performance capabilities.
12~The system shall provide the capability to fully control and display the AV's Identification Friend or Foe (IFF).
40~The system shall provide the capability to enter AV preset limits which, as a minimum, will include airspeed limits, altitude limits, and fuel limits.
578~The system shall allow the operator to control an AV using the LOS as well as SATCOM data links..
6~The system shall provide the necessary system capabilities required for AV flight control BLOS via uplink command to two MAE air vehicles.
8~The system shall support operation of the AV via all flight modes, to include manual controls.
48~The system shall provide the capability to implement an emergency action plan, if supported by the AV, to control the AV during equipment failures.
23~The system shall provide interactive displays necessary to command the flight of an AV.
29~The system shall allow the operator to command the flight behavior characteristics inherent to the selected AV.
5304~The operator shall have the capability to initiate as well as change, to include as a minimum manual override, flight behaviors by sending the proper control commands to the UAV.
32~The system shall have the capability to command the AV to use the navigation methods inherent to the selected AV.
3536~The operator shall have the capability to initiate as well as change, to include as a minimum manual override, UAV navigation methods by sending the proper control commands to the UAV.
4~The system shall provide the functionality to control, monitor, and display the operation of the Air Data Terminal (ADT).
3~This control will include control of the ADT antenna and of the ADT transmitter and receiver.
1~The system shall provide the functionality to control the ADT antenna.
2449~This control will including its pointing direction and mode of transmission (for example omni and directional).
302~The system shall provide the functionality to control the power, transmitter signal strength, and frequencies used by ADT for data link communication.
5~As an objective, the system shall support an automatic launch and recovery system.
1152~As and objective, the system shall be interoperable with the Integrity Beacon Landing System (IBLS), and the Common Automated Recovery System (CARS), both used by Outrider.
112~As an objective, the system shall present sufficient cues to the operator to implement and monitor automatic launch and recovery, and to initiate abort procedures if required.
16~The system shall allow the operator to initiate the emergency recovery feature of the AV, if the AV has an emergency recovery feature.
1898~system shall provide the capability to monitor specific telemetry elements real time, and record all telemetry elements for future review and processing.
272~system shall provide the capability to monitor AV adherence to the uplinked mission plan, detecting any deviations greater than 10% from projected flight path, and notifying the operator if deviations are detected.
6~system shall provide the capability to monitor the status of all AV subsystems reporting status.
72~The system shall display the AV status, to include but not be limited to the AV location and flight and avionics system status.
500~When the data link is interrupted, the system shall present the last known AV status values and the time at which the last values were reported.
740~The system shall be capable of displaying fuel parameters to the operator to include as a minimum, remaining fuel, flow rate, and bingo fuel.
440~Bingo fuel is the minimum amount of fuel necessary to return to the designated Recovery site with reserve fuel.
6460~The system shall compute the estimated position of the AV during Loss of Link (LOL) based upon the last known AV position and anticipated flight path based on current flight mode (for example flight route plan mode, emergency flight route plan mode, maintain current heading mode).
3~system shall display a LOL timer to the operator initiating a LOL onset.
92~The system shall be capable of being interoperable with the installed payloads across the 5 levels of UAV interaction.
10~The system will have the capability to control and monitor the AV payload(s).
72~The system shall have the capability to receive data from and control payloads on an AV that is being controlled from another system.
2800~The system shall provide the necessary system capabilities required for payload control beyond line of sight via uplink command of two air vehicles of the same type using sequential communication techniques.
8~Sequential communication means alternatively communicating with one air vehicle and then the other.
52~Current air vehicle design does not permit concurrent communications with two air vehicles at the same time.
8~The system shall receive, process, and present payload data to the operator so that the status of the payload can be determined.
740~The system shall permit the operator to control the payload using all methods supported by the payload installed in the selected AV.
3~The system shall provide a graphical user interface display for the purpose of controlling the payload.
2~The system shall provide override of payload automated as well as preprogrammed inputs.
2~system shall provide the capability to monitor payload adherence to the uplinked mission plan.
12~The system shall display the current search footprint and the search history of the payload on the map.
68~The system shall have the capability to simultaneously control and monitor a line of sight as well as a BLOS data terminal.
500~The system shall provide the system functionality necessary to record data obtained via the data link.
908720~The system shall be capable of interfacing with the specified data terminal and issuing data link terminal commands required to establish, control, and maintain the data link with a selected AV.
1648~Data terminal control shall include, but is not limited to, antenna pointing control, transmitter control, and receiver control.
22~The system shall be capable of automatically selecting the proper mode of operation for the selected data terminal.
6780~As a minimum the system LOS data terminal control modes shall include acquisition, autotrack, search, manual point, omni directional, as well as directional modes of operation, if applicable to the selected data link.
3232~The operator shall be able to manually override any automatic data terminal control mode selection if desired, except during Emission Control (EMCON) and Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance (HERO) conditions.
18~The system shall support a LOS data link and SATCOM data link capability.
5904~For shipboard operations, the system shall provide the capability to switch to a second LOS antenna, if a second antenna is available, when desired (for example the currently active antenna is masked by shipboard obstructions).
189~The system shall provide the capability to switch to a SATellite COMmunication (SATCOM) antenna, if the selected AV has SATCOM capability, when desire (for example the AV proceeds beyond LOS range as well as when LOS is obstructed).
32~The system shall provide an interactive display for the purpose of controlling the data link terminal.
144~The system shall provide automatic pointing commands for directional antennas, and shall allow for the manual pointing of directional antennas when desired by the operator.
34~The system shall be capable of positioning antennas to maintain LOS as well as SATCOM.
76~The system shall incorporate antenna pedestal 3 axis stabilization to compensate for platform (for example ship, or HMMWV) motion, if applicable.
30~The system shall be capable of automatically controlling the transmitter and receiver functions of the selected data terminal.
52~The operator shall be able to manually override the automatic function selection of the selected data terminal, if desired.
30~The system shall be capable of automatically controlling the transmitter and receiver modes of the selected data terminal.
52~The operator shall be able to manually override the automatic mode selection of the selected data terminal, if desired.
30~The system shall be capable of automatically controlling the transmitter and receiver frequencies of the selected data terminal.
6~The operator shall be able to manually override the automatic frequency selection if desired.
96~The system shall receive, process, and present status data to the operator so that the status of the data terminal and the supported AV data link can be monitored.
22~The system shall be capable of monitoring and displaying the signal strength of the received and transmitted signals for the selected data terminal.
22~The system shall be capable of monitoring and displaying the signal quality of the received and transmitted signals for the selected data terminal.
34~The system shall be capable of presenting to the operator a visual depiction of the minimum and maximum data link operational ranges.
560~The system will have the functionality necessary to manage all aspects of payload product handling to include receiving, processing, displaying, and performing limited exploitation.
14~The payload product includes the payload sensor output and the appropriate AV and payload telemetry data.
352~The system shall have the functionality to process payload product data from Electro Optical (EO), Infrared (IR), and Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) payloads.
13022254~This functionality, as a minimum, shall include: formatting, storing, internally routing, and recording the video creating and storing a freeze frame of the video retrieving and displaying the video printing a hard copy of freeze frame video and processing digital imagery for export and dissemination.
97~Payload data includes the digital and analog imagery and associated telemetry sent to the system from each of these payloads.
8~The system shall be able to store up to 24 hours of payload data.
1~External storage can be utilized for this purpose.
112~The system shall be in compliance with Common Imagery Ground Surface Station (CIGSS), United States Imagery Standards (USIS), Video Working Group Standards Architecture, National Imagery Transmission Format (NITF) Version 2.0, and Global Command Control Systems (GCCS) when processing payload imagery data.
408~The NITF 2.0 imagery files generated by the system shall contain the necessary telemetry and support data to permit subsequent imagery exploitation by C4I systems.
77~The system shall have a built in text entry capability including the ability to annotate textual information on imagery.
6~The system shall be capable of receiving secondary HAE UAV payload imagery.
4~Payload telemetry data shall be available to support other system functions as required.
12~The system shall display live and recorded imagery data, with as well as without annotation and overlay, upon operator request.
37~Annotation includes operator generated comments as well as graphics which are superimposed on the imagery.
266~Overlays consist of information obtained from external sources that is selected by the operator for presentation with the imagery.
6596~The system shall provide the capability to simultaneously view imagery as well as data from more than one payload, when applicable.
2~The system operator shall be able to select the content of the overlay information.
84~The system shall have the capability to select and deselect several types of cross hairs (or other similar ICON) to identify a selected point on a target.
4~RS170A video and digital imagery shall be routed to system functions and displayed upon operator request..
168~The system shall have the functionality to conduct limited exploitation, to include voice and textual reporting for spot and mission objectives, on the payload product data.
2~Limited exploitation, as a minimum, will include image enhancement and annotation.
26~The image enhancement capability shall include contrast, brightness, edge enhancement, and sharpness..
33~The system shall provide the capability to capture frozen frames of imagery and store these frozen images for further review and processing.
3120~The system shall have the capability to display Near Real Time (NRT) imagery to include, as a minimum, date or time group, target location coordinates when the target is in the center of the field of view, north seeking arrow, and AV position and heading.
2248~The system shall provide the capability to compute the range and bearing between two geographic positions located on the payload imagery display.
9~The system will have the functionality to determine target coordinates, and estimate target coordinate accuracy.
32~The system shall support a target location function where the operator can request the current ground location of the payload field of view center.
1960~The system shall have the functionality to determine the location of items of interest within the payload field of view, and express these locations in coordinates acceptable for military applications.
22~The system shall have the functionality to develop an estimate of the error in computed target coordinates, and associate the error estimate with the appropriate target.
16~The system shall be capable of entering DII COE compliant (C4I) networks.
326658~The system shall have the functionality necessary to manage all aspects of C4I system interfaces to include receiving, processing, and transmitting tactical information to include but not limited to character based text messages, NITF 2.0 imagery files, and RS 170A video.
654~The system shall provide the functionality necessary to interface with various C4I systems in order to satisfy the operational requirements for: Tasking system to plan and conduct a mission.
1~Presentation of payload product and target coordinates for export and dissemination.
46208~Use of UAV obtained data (Non real time tracks, tactical points and amplifying information) to provide a C4I system with information that may be used by C4I system operators, for transmission on tactical data communication links, and available to support engagement by appropriate weapons systems.
1266~The system shall have the capability to interoperate with a data server to receive, extract, and push intelligence data.
238~The system shall have the capability to use cable to deliver live video imagery in multiple locations.
39900~The system shall have the ability to interface with Service specific ground and airborne Ultra High Frequency (UHF), Very High Frequency (VHF), UHF or VHF, and High Frequency (HF) radios for digital message transmission while using the same radios for record traffic.
6~Record traffic is defined as operational or voice communications.
12~Where applicable, system data burst messages shall comply with Variable Message Formats.
259~The system shall export and disseminate formatted NITF 2.0 files, digital imagery (if applicable) , RS 170A video (with as well as without overlay), and tactical communication messages.
8~The system will have the capability to manage all operational C4I interfaces across all 5 levels of interaction.
18~The system shall, as a minimum, have the functionality to provide the following control capabilities: Send and receive tactical communication messages.
1~Send and receive annotated and un annotated digital imagery.
59~Establish digital communication and when completed terminate communications to the C4I systems specified in Section 3.2.5.
4~Establish and when completed terminate digital communication to peripheral devices.
72~The system shall, as a minimum, have the functionality to provide the following control capabilities: Send and receive analog imagery in RS 170A format with as well as without overlay.
27~Establish and when completed terminate analog communication to C4I systems specified in Section 3.2.5.
4~Establish and when completed terminate analog communication to peripheral devices.
6~The system will have the functionality to process received C4I messages and to prepare C4I messages for transmission.
2~Processing will include formatting, storing, routing, and display.
48~The system shall, as a minimum, have the functionality to provide the following digital data processing capabilities.
19~All digital messages received by the system shall be automatically checked for errors and corrected when possible.
3~All erroneous messages that cannot be corrected by system shall be flagged to the operator.
44~The system shall provide the capability to log all incoming and outgoing formatted tactical messages..
1568~The system shall, as a minimum, have the functionality to provide the following analog data processing capabilities: Prepare annotated as well as un annotated analog imagery for transmission.
1~Receive incoming annotated as well as un annotated analog imagery.
24~The system shall have the functionality to monitor the status of all C4I interfaces, and display appropriate control information.
48~The system shall, as a minimum, have the functionality to provide the following data monitoring capabilities.
10~system shall be capable of executing AV maintenance software and displaying appropriate status results..
5~system shall be capable of executing payload maintenance software and displaying appropriate status results.
16~system shall be capable of executing data terminal maintenance software and displaying appropriate status results.
5~system shall be capable of executing workstation and peripheral equipment maintenance software and displaying appropriate status results.
16406~Fault Detection or Location (FD or L) to the Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) level shall be provided to indicate the readiness status of system, if inherent to the COTS hardware and software utilized.
2~As a minimum, system shall provide Startup FD or L for the operator workstation.
1272~The system shall allow the operator to control and monitor the AV's FD or L, if required and provided by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM).
24~Payload's FD or L, if required and provided by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM).
16~and Data Link FD or L, if required and provided by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM).
160~The system shall allow authorized operators to install software upgrades via CD ROM as well as other media storage devices.
5~The system shall restrict operator access to this capability via password protection.
2~The system shall provide the capability for Authorized Operators to modify all system programmable parameters.
5~As a minimum, the system shall restrict Operator access to this capability via password protection.
19273321~The system shall be capable of importing National Imagery Mapping Agency (NIMA) Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED), Digital Feature Analysis Data (DFAD), Arc Digitized Raster Graphic and scanned hard copy maps, via compact disk.
5~The system shall be capable of importing map information via operator procedure.
1~and shall be capable of incorporating vector format and Compressed ADRG (CADRG) maps.
6~The system shall allow an Authorized Operator to execute a software debug capability and view the resulting debug diagnostic information.
5~As a minimum, the system will restrict Operator access to this capability via password protection.
1~The system will interface with external systems to conduct mission coordination and operations.
65716~The system shall provide the capability to interface with equipment necessary to provide connectivity with standard DoD tactical (VHF, UHF, and UHF or VHF) radios, Mobile Subscriber Equipment, and military and commercial satellite communications equipment.
3~The system shall interface with external mission tasking systems (e.g, receive tasking orders, coordinate mission certification).
12~The system shall provide the system functionality necessary to interface with the data terminal.
44~The system shall provide the system functionality to allow interfacing with external systems via a local area network.
4~The system shall provide external interfaces to launch and recovery systems.
74~The system will be interoperable with C4I systems, as listed in Section 3.2.5 of this document.
3~This prioritization schema has been validated by a Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) Memorandum.
7104~For external communications to C4I systems the system shall utilize the Universal Communication Processor as well as the Common Message Processor (CMP) Government Off The Shelf (GOTS) software capabilities of the DII or COE to communicate with C4I systems using Tactical Communication (TACOMM) messages.
4~Details of the TACCOM messages and the associated C4I system will be defined in the applicable system to C4I IDDs.
300~The system shall provide the necessary hardware and software functionality to allow the system to integrate with ASAS.
2020~The system will provide the necessary hardware and software functionality to allow the system to integrate with Service Mission Planners.
8~The Service Mission Planners will consist of AMPS, AFMSS, and TAMPS.
188~The system shall provide interfaces with the respective UAV program provided data links for command and control and UAV data.
24~The system shall have provisions for simultaneously supporting both of the following external interfaces: LOS data link, SATCOM data link.
14~Details of the system to DT interface will be defined in the system to Data Terminal IDD.
3~The system shall provide an interface between the system and an external hard copy printer.
9438~The system shall as a minimum, allow Operator(s) to print freeze frame video, C4I Messages, Mission Plans, FD or L information, and current map display.
22~The system shall have the functionality to output digital message data and imagery to a hard copy printer.
24~Details of the Tactical Control System (system) to printer interface will be defined in the system to Printer IDD.
10~The system shall provide an interface between the system and external data storage systems.
488~The system shall have the functionality to transfer digital data as well as digital imagery to and from external data storage systems.
1056~Details of the Tactical Control System (system) to external data storage interface will be defined in the system to External Data Storage IDD, system256.
30~The system shall have an interface between the system and DoD standard power supply equipment.
212~The system shall have the functionality to connect to the power supply equipment provided in the system operating environment.
64~Details of the Tactical Control System (system) to external power interface will be defined in the system to External Power IDD.
6~The system shall have an interface to a source of current navigation information.
24~As a minimum this information will include the location of all data terminals, launch and recovery sites, and the controlling system.
64~Details of the Tactical Control System (system) to external power interface will be defined in the system to Geopositional Data IDD.
32~Except for the internal interfaces enumerated under this section, all system internal interfaces are left to the design and to the requirement specifications for system components.
296~The system will provide, as a minimum, the following internal interfaces: AV Standard Interface., Data Server, SAR Processor., Intercom., Local Printer., Video Cassette Recorder, Storage devices., Uninterruptible Power Supply
6~The system shall implement an AV Standard Interface that will provide the proper data format to ensure communications with the selected AV.
4~This interface shall allow for addition of future AVs and will provide the generic architecture to ensure interoperability.
1176~The uplink and downlink information passed between the system and the AV shall be in accordance with the associated AV documentation.
4~The system shall support a concurrent uplink and downlink capability.
16~The AV Standard Interface requirements and specifications will be defined in the AV Standard IDD.
10~The AV Standard Interface is designated as a mission and safety critical interface for the system.
70~The system shall provide an internal interface for establishing communications with the Real Time Processor (RTP) within system.
86~This interface shall allow the information from the data server to be made available to other components of the system.
1~The RTP interface shall support distributed processing capability.
4~The RTP interface requirements and specifications will be defined in the Data Server IDD.
8~Remotely hosted applications shall communicate in a client server relationship via the defined data server interface.
124~The system shall provide an internal interface for the SAR Processor in order to disseminate SAR information (to include imagery and telemetry) to other components of the system.
8~The SAR Processor interface requirements and specifications will be defined in the system to SAR Processor IDD.
36~The system shall incorporate an intercom system that provides verbal communicate in the situation where there are multiple operators.
4~The intercom system shall be compatible with service specific voice communication systems.
4~The intercom interface requirements and specifications will be defined in the system to Intercom IDD.
3~The system will provide an interface between the system and a video cassette recorder.
28~The system shall allow the Operator(s) to fully control the VCR via the system Display input device(s).
14~The system shall be able to route VCR recorded payload video to the C4I Interfaces.
2288~An RS 170A video interface shall be provided for the system to output and input analog imagery and overlays to and from a Video Cassette Recorder (VCR) for recording and playback.
2~Details of the VCR interface will be defined in the system to VCR IDD.
54~The system shall have ports for outputting data and imagery to an internal hard copy printer.
24592~The system shall, as a minimum, allow the Operator(s) to print freeze frame video, C4I Messages, Mission Plans, FD or L information, and current map display to an internal printer.
2~Details of the printer interface will be defined in the system to Printer IDD.
6~The system shall be able to access data storage devices.
488~The system shall have the functionality to transfer digital data as well as digital imagery to and from data storage devices.
6~The system shall provide a CD drive for the retrieval of system data.
12~The system shall provide a tape drive for storage and retrieval of system data.
4~The system shall provide a RAID for storage and retrieval of system data, if required.
2~The system shall have an interface to an uninterruptible power supply.
32~All system internal data decisions will be left to the design and the requirement specifications for system components.
41~The system design shall consider all safety requirements affecting design and performance except nuclear safety.
2202~The system safety requirements are intended to eliminate as well as control potential hazards to equipment and personnel involved in the system.
14~The system shall comply with para 5.3 of MIL STD 882C, "System Safety Program Requirements", dated 19 January 1993 w or Notice 1 dated 19 January 1996.
198~The system shall provide sufficient cues to allow the operator to safely take off, land and navigate under Instrument Flight Rules.
40~The system shall provide adequate capability to allow the operator to operate each UAV within its certified operational flight envelope.
8~Appropriate cautions and warnings shall be provided to the operator if the air vehicle deviates into unsafe flight regime.
194~For mission planning, the system shall provide terrain avoidance warning and minimum reception altitude calculations for line of sight flights.
2~During mission execution, the system shall provide the operator a cautions and warnings when the UAV system has identified a malfunction.
5848~The system shall provide the required information to allow the operator to maintain safe separation from other aircraft and a safe altitude in civilian airspace per Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules.
352~The system shall be designed such that no single hardware failure results in an unsafe command to be transmitted to the air vehicle.
352~The system shall be designed such that no single software error results in an unsafe command to be transmitted to the air vehicle.
88~The system shall be capable of restoring power in sufficient time to avoid loss of air vehicle control during power outages.
12~The system shall monitor the uplink and downlink to each UAV under its control.
4~Upon detection of loss of link, the system shall attempt to reestablish communications with the air vehicle.
10~The system design shall provide protection against injury to system operators and maintenance personnel..
23596~The system design shall use MIL STD 2036, Section 5.1.3.11 as a guide, with regard to personnel hazards, and MIL STD 1472D, Section 5.13, as a guide for safety from a human engineering viewpoint.
11~System safety and health hazards, if any, shall be identified and evaluated during Phase I of the system development.
94~Risk levels and a program to manage the probability and severity of hazards shall also be developed.
1~The system is an Automated Information System (AIS).
17868~Therefore, as per DoD Regulation 5000.2 R, dated March 15, 1996, the system shall meet security requirements in accordance with DoD Directive 5200.28(D), "Security Requirements for Automated Information Systems" dated March 21, 1988.
2528~The system shall be accredited by the Designated Approving Authority prior to processing classified as well as sensitive unclassified data.
7720~Using risk assessment procedures defined in DoD 5200.28(D), a risk index and the minimum security requirements for system shall be determined.
5892~The inputs to this procedure are the clearance or authorization of the system users and the sensitivities of the data that the system processes, stores or transfers.
2~These requirements pertain to the system computer hardware and software.
7152~The system data sensitivities shall be determined by the data sensitivities of the systems with which it interfaces, to including the air vehicles, payloads, and C4I systems.
38990~Links that provide communications between the system and other systems shall be secured in a manner appropriate for the sensitivities of the material passed through such links, in accordance with DoD Directive C 5200.5, "Communication Security (COMSEC)" dated 21 April 1990.
24~The system shall be designed to protect its communication and data links against enemy Electronic Warfare (EW) threats, physical anti radiation weaponry and physical destruction.
286212~All hardware, software, documentation, and sensitive information processed by system shall be physically protected, minimally at the level determined by the risk index computed in Section 3.8.1, to prevent intentional as well as unintentional disclosure, destruction, and modification.
271~The system shall be approved for operation at the same level as the systems with which it interfaces.
84288~All system users, operators, maintainers and other personnel having access to system shall be cleared to the highest sensitivity of the data that the system processes, stores and transfers.
16~Additional local site procedures shall be developed to prevent the intentional or unintentional disclosure of sensitive information to unauthorized individuals.
300~A training program consisting of an initial security training and awareness briefing covering AIS security in general but also tailored to the system shall be developed.
1936~The system shall be capable of operation within environments specified in the System or Subsystem Design Document for the land based shelter and shipboard environments.
4~The system hardware shall be mounted as well as ruggedized to withstand inter and intra theater movement.
50460~The system hardware will provide the functionality and capability to receive, process, and disseminate video and telemetry data from the AV and payload perform mission planning monitor and control the payload monitor and control the AV and monitor and control the data links.
456~The hardware of the system shall be capable of being scaled as well as being modular to meet the varying needs of the Services.
135908~The system hardware shall allow for long range communications from one system to another, data storage expansion, access to other computers to share in processing capability, and multiple external peripherals.
60~The system hardware shall support the data rate characteristics of the AV, data link and payload to ensure interoperability.
2~For each OUTRIDER system, the system shall provide full independent computer redundancy.
60~The system shall conform with the National Institute for Standard Technology (NIST) Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 151 2 (POSIX.1).
12~The system shall have sufficient throughput to support the processing requirements of the selected data link.
48~To meet growth requirements, the system shall be capable of adding additional storage without major hardware reconfiguration.
75228~The system computer system shall contain a CD ROM drive that is compatible with National Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA), CD ROM Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED), Digital Feature Analysis Data (DFAD), and embedded training media.
24~The system shall use standard military worldwide 110 or 220 volt 50 or 60 hertz generators and commercial power sources.
372~The system shall use standard electrical power sources available within the DoD family of ground mobile, airborne, and shipboard electrical power sources.
2462~The system shall be capable of restoring power in sufficient time to avoid loss of critical mission data and loss of air vehicle control during power outages.
280~The system shall have an uninterrupted power supply for critical phases (landing and takeoff as a minimum) of mission execution.
95424~The system throughput shall not exceed 50% of the throughput capability delivered over any 10 second period, and as an objective throughput shall not exceed 25% of throughput capability delivered over any 10 second period.
33~The system shall be capable of providing a 50% spare memory storage capacity over delivered storage used.
17~As an objective a 75% spare memory storage capacity over storage used shall be provided.
50460~The system software will provide the functionality and capability to receive, process, and disseminate video and telemetry data from the AV and payload perform mission planning monitor and control the payload monitor and control the AV and monitor and control the data links.
2515~The system shall have software based on Defense Information Infrastructure or Common Operating Environment per Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (ASD(C3I)) Joint Technical Architecture (JTA).
26~The system shall comply with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (C3I) Joint Technical Architecture (JTA).
95~This includes, but is not limited to, the language, the computer, database, architecture, and interoperability.
34832~The system shall provide an open software architecture to be capable of supporting additional CSCIs, CSCs, and CSUs for future AVs, future payloads, and payload capabilities (for example auto search and automatic target tracking), and future Tactical UAVs.
4548~The system core software shall be generically written to provide level one through level five interaction for both Outrider and Predator UAVs and establish the architecture for future tactical UAVs.
1904~The system software shall provide the UAV operator with the necessary tools for computer related communications, mission tasking, mission planning, mission execution, data receipt, data processing, and data dissemination.
158~The system software shall be capable of being hosted on a variety of computer operating systems that are organic to the various Services.
1~system software shall provide a windows based graphic operator interface.
2~The system software shall be non proprietary and have unlimited data rights.
82~The system's operating system and executable software shall be re programmable without hardware disassembly.
12~Training software shall be alterable without affecting the configuration of the operational software.
180~Training software is the software that provides the computer based training functionality for the system operator.
82~The system software shall restrict the operator(s) from exercising levels of interaction not achievable by the system.
11220~The system software shall provide a high resolution, computer generated, graphical user interface that enables the UAV operator that is trained on one system to control different types of UAVs as well as UAV payloads with minimal additional training.
30584~Each control console shall have, at a minimum, the capability to display the following four display windows: display to provide aircraft position, system position, flight path, and a waypoint graphics in the foreground which are positioned in relation to a map displayed in the background.
16~A display to provide graphic presentations of downlinked telemetry data, and display to present the interface menus for workstation software.
157~The DII or COE UCP or CMP shall provide a consistent and common set of interfaces for United States Message Text Format (USMTF), Army Tactical Command Control System (AsystemS), and Field Artillery Tactical Data Systems (FATDS) message sets.
4~The TACCOM segment shall provide external interfaces for the communications media.
18432~The TACCOM segment shall provide API's for the transmission of imagery in National Imagery Transmission Formats 1.1a and 2.0 as per MILSTD 2500 and to be compatible with the Common Imagery Ground or Surface Station (CGIS) Guidelines.
6751~The system data latency shall not be greater than that present in the Predator ground control station or Outrider ground control station, whichever is smaller.
2496~The system reliability will be considered in every phase of the design and development process and shall achieve a system reliability (Mean Time Between Failures MTBF) equal to or greater than that which is specified in the Predator and Outrider ORDs.
33376~The system maintainability will be considered in every phase of the design and development process and shall achieve a system maintainability (Mean Time To Repair MTTR) equal to or greater than that which is specified in the Predator and Outrider ORDs.
2214~The system equipment shall achieve an availability (Ao), as defined below, equal to or greater than that which is specified in the Predator and Outrider ORDs.
23856~The total, fully useable, addressable, physically present program instruction memory and data storage memory for each processor shall have at least 50% unused memory during the Normal Operations Mode over any 10 second period.
26211014~The processing speed of each processor shall be such that at least 50% of the throughput of each processor remains unused over all 10 second periods and at least 20% of the throughput of each processor remains unused over one second periods regardless of the system function performed.
1814~The I or O channel reserve capability for each processor shall have at least a 50% reserve, addressable and useable, I or O channel capacity over any 10 second period.
168~system software flexibility and expandability shall be provided through use of the DII COE and through use of standardized software development practices.
358~Hardware and software shall be selected for use in the system with the goal of providing ease of future changes to the system elements.
49592~The object of portability for the system is to select or develop hardware which will readily host emerging software packages and software which will be as independent of host hardware as possible.
7560~The selection of processors, interface cards for communication interfaces, disk drives, video, networking equipment, and all other hardware for use in the system shall be made according to standards for production of an open architecture.
114~The selection of operating system and programming language for use in the system shall be made according to standards for development of an open architecture.
4~Testability shall be considered in the design and development of the system.
1~The system shall be functionally and physically partitioned to allow for efficient fault isolation.
14~Control over internal items and devices shall be provided for detecting and isolating internal faults.
106~Test points and data paths shall be defined to support efficient fault isolation.
97~The system shall provide the common software architecture for system interaction with Predator, Outrider, and future Tactical UAVs.
232~In the selection of hardware design solutions to satisfy the requirements herein, Non Developmental Items (NDI) (off the shelf equipment previously approved for service use) shall be chosen to the maximum practicable extent.
4~If NDI that provides the desired functions can not be identified, then Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) hardware may be used.
228~During Phase 1, design and construction will be accomplished in accordance with commercial best practices unless otherwise required to meet a specific service operational environmental factor.
3768~Design and construction requirements for Phase 2 will be revised to reflect appropriate government approved sub tier specifications controlling all aspects of electrical and electronic or mechanical designs for new or modified system equipment.
3~System documentation shall be developed as part of the system program and will follow MIL STD 498 for format.
6~The documentation developed shall contain sufficient level of detail to identify the functional, operational and design requirements of the system.
38~The documentation shall contain sufficient technical detail to define the hardware and software design implemented to satisfy the system requirements.
4005~system material factors shall be governed by the NDI, GFE and COTS specifications developed by the equipment manufacturers, where applicable.
75~During Phase 1, control techniques to minimize electromagnetic interference, emanation, and susceptibility shall be used in the design of system equipment.
173~This control will be inherent in the design of the system and the electrical and electronic equipment components and assemblies thereof.
84~The susceptibility to coupling and the propagation of Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) will be minimized by component location, cable routing, and judicious use of shielding.
109132~There shall be neither unacceptable response nor malfunction of any system and associated equipment due to EMI produced by any as well as all of the system and equipment associated with the system.
78~The system shall be compatible with the external electromagnetic environment that is typical of the service specific environment in the system will be operated.
5~The specific electromagnetic environment values will be determined during Phase I of the system development.
27~The system design shall ensure that personnel, fuel, and ordinance are not exposed to electromagnetic radiation as a result of operating the system.
29~The specific radiation hazard (RADHAZ) and HERO values will be determined during Phase I of the system development.
59~As system transitions into Phase 2, electromagnetic radiation safety and operation specifications will be invoked in the LRIP specification.
2~Newly designed software shall be developed in accordance with a tailored MIL STD 498.
176~Software written for other systems shall be used in system where it is determined that the existing software is suitable for use within the system software.
11385~A modular architecture shall be used by the system software in order to support future interoperability with multiple types of UAVs and payloads while maintaining consistent displays and user interfaces.
444~Software components satisfying common planning and control functions will allow for vehicle specific components to be integrated in the future.
1456~system hardware flexibility and expansion shall be provided through use of GFE, NDI and COTS hardware designed to be upgraded and expanded.
18~After emplacement at the operational site, the system shall be capable of planning and launching a mission within 1 hour of tasking.
111465~Required activities include 1) mission planning of a minimum 1 waypoint mission, 2) preparing 2 AVs for flight, 3) data terminal set up, 4) safety equipment emplaced, 5) and a single AV launched.
7~The system shall be capable of operating continuously in functional Operation Mode for a minimum of 72 hours.
3619~The system shall have ergonomically designed operator controls and displays for the 5th percentile female to 95th percentile male operator.
52~The controls shall allow the air vehicle and payload operators to perform mission control, mission monitoring, and mission updates and modifications while wearing cold weather clothing and in a Mission Oriented Protective Posture.
190~The system shall provide the operator a caution and warning diagnostic when the system has identified a malfunction.
266~The system shall have monitor(s) that allow reading of displays under direct sunlight and low light level environments.
1~The system HCI shall be a Graphical User Interface (GUI) based on X windows and Motif.
36~When performing a given task during mission execution, the operator shall be given appropriate warning messages from other concurrently executing subsystem tasks.
3~system Warning messages shall be color coded and flashed based on mission criticality.
10~The color codes and flash frequencies will follow MIL STD 1472 guidelines.
80062~The system operator shall be required to enter an acknowledgment prior to disabling the display of critical warning flags for any AV, Payload, ADT, GDT, and system faults.
9~A combination of visual and auditory outputs will be provided to alert the system operator to situations which may require operator response.
16200~Visual alerts to the system operator shall be in the form of a displayed message box that has a display priority greater than other existing windows to ensure that it is viewable immediately by the operator..
18~The position of the displayed message window shall be easily adjustable by the operator to ensure that important mission data is not obscured.
44~In addition to displayed alert messages to the system operator, auditory alerts to include tones shall also be provided.
1541~The volume of these auditory tones shall be adjustable by the operator via keyboard and trackball input to at least 20dB above the speech interference level at the operator's ear.
10~All system warning messages and HCI actions shall be archived for later review.
1579~All system operator inputs shall be error checked such that any erroneous operator entry will not cause current processing to terminate.
4~The HCI shall prompt the operator for a valid input.
2~Display jitter and flicker shall not be perceptible by the operator.
30~The operational tasks to be performed concurrently by the operator during normal operation will be determined by appropriate task analysis and function allocation.
16~The system shall facilitate Human Computer Interfaces (HCIs) that support operation of all system modes, functions, and capabilities.
26~The Human Computer Interface (HCI) shall be designed and implemented in accordance with the system HCI Specification.
4~The HCI shall provide redundancy in all operations, so that the loss of any one HCI input device does not prohibit operation of any system function.
139~The system shall provide the functionality to display all HCI elements on any available monitor on the system workstation.
12365~The system shall be capable of displaying a window within a window format to include, as a minimum, displaying a video window overlaid on a map screen as well as a map screen overlaid on a video screen.
1581~The system shall provide full complementary control operations from the keyset as well as the X or Y control device (e.g, trackball, mouse, joystick).
16~The system shall provide access to the DII Style Manager so that pointing device characteristics can be modified.
56560~The system shall provide the functionality to have a maximum delay time of 1 second from operator command to system acknowledgement and response.[SSS 559] The system shall provide a capability for porting an off the shelf, complex control joystick with multiple toggle and multi position switches as part of the system hardware suite.
94~The system shall use graphical representations to convey information, such as system status, C4I links, and AV GDT links.
18~The system shall provide for multi level information display tailoring by the operator.
115~The system shall provide automated system information, control options, and logical and simple operator guidance and support for immediate and adaptive responding to crisis situations.
1440~The system shall provide maximum automated system software support to system status monitoring and alerting of the system operator when a preset system parameter goes under as well as over a set threshold.
62~The system shall provide the necessary processing, display, and control capabilities to ensure dynamic situational awareness input to the system operator.
22~The system shall minimize alphanumeric data display in favor of graphic, pictorial information display.
1196~The system HCI shall provide unambiguous AV and payload control and status feedback indicators to ensure safe, efficient operations of two AVs and their payloads by a single system station.
19200~The system shall provide for a specific icon shape on a constant contrast background, as well as other visual information coding mechanisms, to cue the system operator regarding which UAVs are under his or her primary control.
21~The system HCI shall provide the capability to select and amplify an object and point on a map as well as payload screen.
3~The system HCI shall provide coarse and fine payload control capabilities directly on the payload screen.
2~The system HCI shall display the SAR imaging swath on the map display.
41~The system HCI shall provide the on screen capability to select and efficiently move as well as reorient a previously defined SAR imaging swath.
9~The system HCI shall provide the capability to lock onto and hold a coordinate point on the payload imagery window.
2997~The system HCI shall provide the capability to display operator definable "Lock Out" zones around waypoints, Launch and Recovery Point (LRP), as well as any selected point on the AV flight path.
4~The system HCI shall provide for a rapid means to cancel aural warnings.
132~The system HCI shall provide for separation, grouping, and visual coding of multiple categories of alerts, to include Warnings, Cautions, and Advisories.
2844~The system HCI shall provide for visual Warnings, Cautions, and Advisories to be displayed at or near the center of the field of view, i.e, within a 30o cone, of all monitors in a system.
63120~For AV safety as well as mission critical Warnings, the system HCI shall provide a default selection as well as an override option, along with a selection of adaptive responses, and the minimum information necessary to assist the operator in responding quickly and adaptively to the emergency.
11944~The system HCI shall provide for on screen information to include, as a minimum, overlays, headers, cursors, alphanumeric annotation, waypoints, crosshairs, designed to be visible against the complete spectrum of map and payload video backgrounds.
60~The system HCI shall provide continuously available, on screen control functions for time and missioncritical operations, to include as a minimum print, freeze, declassification, mark VCR, declutter, cease RF transmission.
28~The system HCI shall provide for the capability to automatically designate target locations from the payload screen onto the map screen.
4~Formal training programs shall not be required for system Phase 1, Program definition and Risk Reduction.
1568~Trained and proficient personnel from the Original Equipment Manufacturers, Government Engineering Teams, supporting Contractors, and Military Personnel will support the operation and maintenance of the demonstration system equipment throughout Phase 1.
2360024~system training and training support shall include the processes, procedures, techniques, training devices and equipment to train civilian, active duty and reserve military personnel to operate and support the system.
14256~This will include: individual and crew training new equipment training initial, formal, and on the job training.
28~system training will strike a balance between institutional, new equipment and unit training.
41064~The system shall provide, for the operator and maintainer, an embedded or add on interactive training courseware with self paced instruction, duplicating UAV flight performance characteristics, capabilities, and limitations.
2~The OUTRIDER system shall be compatible with the U.S.
1~Army Intelligence and Electronic Warfare Tactical Proficiency Trainer as an objective.
12~The interactive courseware training capability for system shall be developed during Phase I and introduced to the user during scheduled demonstrations and tests.
51112~The training capability for performance of system functions shall include primary mission (flight route or payload) planning, mission control and monitoring, imagery processing, tactical communications, AV control communications and system on line diagnostics.
5848~This capability will be qualified and improved during Phase I based upon use and feedback from qualified operators and users demonstrating system equipment throughout Phase I.
48302~Instructional support materials and training courseware for classroom discussion and lecture will be developed to support institutional, new equipment training and unit training.
24~The system shall provide the functional capability to train in the operation of the system, performance of system UAV functions, and on line system troubleshooting.
36~system training shall include system architecture, component familiarization, and system startup, initialization, system recovery and shutdown.
5~The system shall not support formal Training operations concurrent with the execution of an actual mission.
96~The capability for the conduct of actual communications processing concurrently with Training operations shall be provided if and only if messages are identified as training messages.
8~Training shall be adequate to maintain operator and maintainer skills and proficiencies.
30~system shall record operator and maintainer actions for self assessment and performance enhancement..
238~Operator and maintainer performance shall be measurable using parameters retrievable from the system to determine proficiency levels.
47803~During Phase 1, system logistic support requirements will be based on known and predicted failure rates of components, and the criticality of those elements to the system development and flight test processes.
8~Logistic requirements for Phase 2 will be determined and incorporated into LRIP requirements and specifications.
560~Support for the system shall be in accordance with the Integrated Logistical Support Plan (ILSP) and the maintenance concepts and policies of the individual Services.
8~All system Operator Manuals and Technical Manuals shall be verified and validated prior to initial operational test.
2727~system transport and storage containers shall be reusable and enable the operators to set up equipment within the established timelines in their ORDs.
1431752~The system shall adhere to DoD regulations and policy governing military standards for logistics, Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants (POL), Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE), tools, and other support items.
44~Standard tools, TMDE, repair parts, and lubricants shall be used to maintain the system.
1~Exceptions shall be considered on a case by case basis.
23~Each Service shall support the system as part of the UAV system which is organic to them.
196~The system shall be maintained in accordance with the UAV ORD for that Service and the level of repair analysis for the hardware chosen.
12~A system support and fielding package shall be developed and available for operational testing.
11~The system shall be maintained in accordance with Services' approved UAV maintenance concepts and procedures.
639755~To the maximum extent possible, general purpose test equipment (GPTE) and common tools resident in each service shall be used to perform all corrective and preventative maintenance at all authorized levels of maintenance.
97552~Tools and test equipment required to maintain the system but not resident in each service inventory shall be identified as special tools and special purpose test equipment (SPTE), respectively, and kept to a minimum.
108~The environmental support required by the system shall be at least the same as that required for the respective UAV System.
280~Basing for the system will follow the plan for UAV units and service command echelon requirements as delineated in the ORD.
54~The system shall meet the deployment criteria for the organic unit to which it is assigned.
26~The system shall be transported into the theater as an organic component of the operational UAV system being deployed.
240~system transportation in theater for Army and Marine Corps systems shall be by ground, air, as well as rail transportable.
4~For the Air Force, system transportation to the theater shall be by air.
10~Within the theater, the USAF GCS shall be capable of being moved around an established air field.
375~The system shall be configurable for sea, ground, as well as air transport in 2 hours or less.
8339~The system shall be capable of being de configured from sea, ground, as well as air transport and ground mobile in 2 hours or less.
70~The system shall have an objective capability to be integrated and operated from tactical and command and control aircraft.
35~The system shall have an objective capability to be integrated and operated from submarines.
25~The system shall have a capability to be integrated and operated from land based platforms.
37~The system shall have an objective capability to be integrated and operated from ships.
140~All requirements in this specification are of equal weight and criticality unless otherwise identified in the traceability Table in Appendix A.
48~The Quality Assurance (QA) Program is an integral part of the development process for the system , whereby all phases of the development of a system must be inspected and tested, as these phases occur.
252~The objectives and processes of the QA Program applicable to this development effort are contained in the system Integration Program Quality Assurance Plan, NSWCDD or TR 96 or XXX.
27~Verification of requirements will be accomplished by the use of appropriate combinations of inspections, analyses, demonstrations and tests.
23~The method to be used for verification of each requirement is identified in Appendix B.
6~All QA functions performed will be monitored by the QA Team.
198444~Verification will consist of surveillance of the operation to determine that practices, methods, and procedures are being properly applied product inspection to measure quality of products to be offered for acceptance and product inspection of delivered products to ensure compliance with all the requirements of this specification.
95~The system will be tested via an integrated program conducted according to the system Master Test Plan, NSWCDD or TR 96 or XXX.
120~The integrated program consists of three distinct categories, as defined in the Master Test Plan: data link tests, integration tests, and flight tests.
2~The product runs as a standalone application.
2~Its user interface uses menus, graphics and sounds.
6~The product requires the use of a keyboard and a mouse to interface with the user.
1~It requires a graphical display of at least 800*600 resolution.
1~The product uses the Qt graphical library.
44~It must run with all the operating systems that Qt supports.
1~The user must undo and redo its last thousand actions.
12~The product must count and display the time that the user uses to play.
6~The product must count and display the number of the user' asction.
101~The product must record the score (time and number of counts) of a play associated with the name of a user.
6~The product must display a window with all the player' scores.
3~The product generally requires a mouse and a keyboard for input.
11280~Other pointing and input devices are allowable, provided they provide similar functions to a mouse and keyboard, namely the ability to move a cursor onscreen to select buttons and the ability to type names.
2~The product uses menus, graphics and sounds.
3~The hardware and operating system must provide an 800x600 screen resolution.
4~Sound is not required to play the game.
8376~The users consist of anyone who wants to play a simple game who knows how to operate a computer, with a beginning level player starting at age 8, up through an advanced level player who could be an adult.
8~The main window shall provide the following parts : A board, a menu bar
4~There can be only one user per machine.
2~The software must be portable to the Windows OS.
30~System Development: The system will be developed on Oracle 9i platform Front end will be VB (visual basic) Reports will be crystal reports 9
2280~System design: The system will be user friendly with maximum master table structure with all transaction screens to have drop down selection menus to minimize data entry errors.
4234~The main data entry screen on claims entry to have drop drown menu from patient's profile selection to medicine cost to have drop down.
4~Minimize the use of keyboard for any number entry to have a faster transaction data entry.
66~The system will be easily trainable for the user with minimum computer skill with simple user step by step manual.
3~Storage efficiency: The structural design of the database will have sequential links with surrogate keys.
5~The database storage will be highly efficient to manage and avoid empty unused spaced blocked, properly defragmenter on a periodic basis.
12~This efficiency will have a maximum provision to expand this program beyond the pilot period, if the program requirements remain same.
10~Security: High intrusion controls will be in place in the system and the database.
32~Access level controls, various organizational level user setting by including granular model setting.
126~Barcode: the system will interface with the barcode reader to interface all transaction details for example voucher number verifications, claim form entry and selection of voucher usage by the clients.
6~Biometrics: the system will interface with the thumbprint reader for verifying claims form used by the clients.
96~Voucher creation: the voucher numbers are system generated and created with unique identification numbers with security protocols inbuilt.
2~The created unique numbers are then printed out in the form of barcodes, which will complement (or stuck on the voucher) the voucher.
140~Then at every level on the voucher cycle this number is captured, on distribution, retail sales, point of treatment, enclosed along with claim forms, at the claims processing and finally for the payment.
2~Such tracking records will be utilized for reports as well.
224~Each voucher should have the following properties, which will have subelements to get the batch numbers, voucher numbers, and the project codes.
1~Project code Group batch code Batch number Voucher number Security code.
1~The voucher will be created ONLY by the authorized person.
156~The will be a provision to create a minimum quantity of vouchers at one time (such minimum numbers will be decided by the management team).
90~Once created vouchers will not be edited or deleted but there will be a provision to withhold any voucher number if the admin team decides to do for any reason.
2~There will be a provision to amend the validity date of the voucher.
9~The marketing and sales is the next step and the next module in the system.
4~This module will take care of following sub modules.
62~The system will capture the master details of every distributor so that the users can get the details of any distributor and sales details at any time.
3~Each distributor will have unique code and detailed descriptions such as name, address, locations and type of business etc.
5~such valid information will help us track information related to sales and distributions.
4~Following fields will be captured at this master.
1~All fields with * are mandatory!
209~The address field will capture the geographical location of the distributor, such as District, SubDistrict, County, SubCounty or Village or Town, road or street.
171~All the level of details will have a master table in order to update as per the program requirements.
1~The system will check the duplicated ID for the distributors.
4~The system can allow the duplicate names of the Distributor.
12~On capture of any duplicate name the system will give a warning message to have the duplicate name or to change the name.
224~For better reporting purposes it is better to have a differentiating indicator on the name.
2~System will have a provision to print the distributor master details.
162~The distributor screen will have a provision to view the Sales History of a particular distributor with following summary details.
6~Distributor Name as Report Header and following as the report footer
408~There will be a provision to select a particular distributor to view the details (for example sales) by double clicking on the grid.
1~Print option of above report is based on User Login Permission only.
28~There will be an option for doing the following at every screen.
60~There will also be a provision for the other users to view the details of a distributor with purchase and sales details.
6~The system will capture the details of MSIU Salesman this would help the MSIU management team to understand the performance of each Team or salesman.
9~During every distribution transaction the user should select the name of the sales man listed from Team Master.
3~The Salesman master should capture following information's.
20~The sales team master is for the future development of this program, if this program is extended to a countrywide network, this master will help understand and tack sales information.
2~The system will check the duplicated ID for the salesman and team.
2~The system can allow the duplicate names of the salesman.
12~On capture of any duplicate name the system will give a warning message to have the duplicate name or to change the name.
224~For better reporting purposes it is better to have a differentiating indicator on the name
7~The system will capture the details of voucher sales between MISU sales team and Distributors.
16~During the distribution the system will capture the following details, to make Distribution process easily.
28~With the below details the user can get the details of Distributor wise and Salesman wise and Batch No wise sales details as reports.
2~The system will generate an autogenerated number as Distribution Invoice No.
306162~Suppose the distributor or salesman name is not available in the system, then the system has a provision to navigate quickly to its master screen and enter the new Distributor and Salesman details, without closing the present screen.
2944~While entering the No of vouchers required, the system should automatically pick the Batch No's with voucher No's from the available voucher stock and list the details of each voucher with below information's as a grid format.
42~The date of distribution will be current (system) date, but the date of sale can be the past dates.
2~There will be a future date sale validation check available.
4~The program will take maximum care in this form and table, as it become a vital transaction to be captured.
24~In this module you will see that every capture of data will be validated and checked on saving into the database.
78~For for example the capture of voucher number, clinical information, diagnosis details, drug and investigation details and the costs are going to provide the program a vital report information.
13~The system development team will focus its attention in making this module or table function efficiently.
96~For the easy understanding and designing of the system, this module is subdivided into following submodules.
2~The division of submodule is purely based on the sublevel categories of the data information.
26~Other than Contact No and EMail Id all other information are mandatory during the creation of a new Service Provider.
6~The VSP code is a digit code with suffix SP, would be automatically generated by the system.
187646~The system should generate message with two option "Continue Yes or No" while the user trying to create a new VSP with an existing name, If the user press Yes the system will allow the user to enter the same, if not the system wont allow the new entry to save.
104934~The system will list District, SubDistrict, County, SubCounty, Village or Town from the master during VSP creation, if any of them are not available in the system, then the system will have the provision to navigate quickly to its master screen and do enter master details and back to VSP screen.
648~The values of Health Sub District, Locality, Level Of Facility, Type of facility, Registration Body would be list from their own master and should select the details based on the VSP.
3660~If any of the information is not available in existing master of above, then the system will have the provision to navigate quickly to its form to enter the master details and back to VSP Screen.
4~The system will populate Active VSP only on other screen during data entry process, but the system will also populate all VSP for report purpose.
4~Activation and Inactivation of VSP is purely based on the MSIU Management decision.
184~But if the system is found more than two fraud entries during the claim process of particular VSP, then the system would automatically change the status of that particular VSP as Inactivate.
26~Activation of that particular VSP is again purely based on MSIU Management decision.
40~The VSP Master Information screen should have a provision to enter the payment terms agreed between MSIU and VSP.
6~The system will capture following master details to fill the payment terms.
5492~The above mentioned payment terms will help the MSIU to make the payment detail easy and also help the VSP to get their payment in timeThe system will control the payment process and terms.
240~The allowed users only can able to Add, Modify or delete the VSP master information including payment terms.
2~The VSP screen will have the provision to view the Claim Status of selected VSP.
12~The system will facilitate to show the user following details if necessary.
6~VSP Name (as the report header and below as the details part of report)
4~Cumulative Total Amount will show in Report footer for the previous payment done.
35~The system will have the facility to capture the details of VSP staff details and the necessary master information while entering the claim into the system.
309~The system will generate message while creating a new staff with existing name, but the system will allow the user to save that new staff if its required.
6~All above information's other than Qualification are mandatory during the creation of new staff under any VSP.
42~The system will automatically create Staff Code with Suffix as VSP Code + SC + 3 digit.
34002~For example HP0001SC0001 Staff type (should be select from list of staff type listing from Staff Type Master) If any of the staff type is not available in the system, then the system should have the provision to navigate quickly to staff type master to enter the new staff type and then back to Staff Master screen.
48~Depends on the payment terms (Bimonthly or Monthly) mentioned in the VSP master the VSP should submit the Claim (Treatment form) to the MISU Field office.
24~While submitting the Claim (Treatment Form) to MSIU, the system will have the provision to capture the following details.
4~These information is vital and shall be used for compared with the processed claims.
1~During submission entry all above information's are mandatory
1~Date of submission should be current date
2~The system lists the VSP Name from VSP Master.
3~Mentioned Forms and Available Forms only accept numeric values.
6~Available forms may be less than or greater than or equal to Mentioned Forms.
8~In the transaction part no of forms should match with No of Available Forms
18~The system should print a receipt document based on the information entered during claim submission.
4~The document should have the following information.
48~The claim entry is purely based on the Treatment (claims) Form submitted by the VSP.
242~Before the claim entry the user should check the form manually to understand whether any mandatory information is missed in the Claim or not.
1~If yes, then the user should mark that Claim (Treatment Form) status as Rejected and send back to VSP.
4~During the claim entry the system should capture the following information.
4~The above details are the master informationd and below listed information are the transaction details of a Claim.
3538~The system will have the provision to enter any number of Syndrome, Clinical Examinations, Diagnosis, Lab Test, Drugs and Other Measures in any treatment level based on MSIU treatment master.
19~The system will automatically generate the Claim number with Hospital Code as Suffix + 8 digit
3672~if any details are not exist in Master record, then the system should have the provision to navigate quickly to its master screen to enter the new details and back to the Claim Entry Screen
165~Patient Status: suppose the status is Referral then the system will have the provision to capture Referred To and Reason for Referral, the reason for Referral should be populated from Referral master.
160~Claim Status: Status of the claim is depends information available in the Claim, if any false data or any mandatory information is available in Claim, then the claims status will change.
280~if the value of status is not "Accepted" then the claim will be stored in quarantine area and can able to precede it further from its status.
3~The system should have a provision to capture the reason suppose if the claim status is "Rejection or Quarantine"
4~Claim Amount The calculation of claim amount is explained below.
358~The system captures the thump impression available in each claim form, and needs to compare it with the same voucher numbers previous visits if available.
6~If the thump impression are mismatching for the same patient (Client or Partner) on same voucher the system would automatically make a count on it.
18~If the claim from same VSP having more than two times of Thump Impression mismatching, then the system should automatically produce a warning message and the same time the system should InActivate the VSP.
6~The authorized user can alter or amend the Claim if required.
4~The user should enter the information exactly into the system from the manual claim form
2~System only accept claims only if the mandatory information is complete
5~System should calculate Claim Amount only based on treatment matrix
142~Voucher Sales return is feature used when a distributor is planning to return the vouchers back to the MSIU sales team.
8~The system will capture the following information during the sales return transaction.
37~While entering return vouchers details the system will check weather the returned voucher was sold to this particular Distributor or not.
3~If not the system won't accept those vouchers as return.
13~MSIU team collects the client feedback from the clients who got treatment through the voucher system.
8~The Client Feedback form should capture the following details
1~The user should enter correct Voucher No
12~The user will not alter any information about treatment, which is populating from the system
14~The system has the provision to provide various analytical, medical, financial and statistical reports, such reports can be designed later.
6~The security setting of the entire system is based on User Group.
2~The roles available in the system are allocated to user group.
3~The user group creation would capture the following Information
3~The system admin only can able to create User Groups
9~The system should have the provision to create any number of individual user under any user group.
8~The system should save the user information only if the Password and Verify password values are equal
69~The system should not allow the user to create a User Group and Individual User with existing names
2916~System Architecture: Broad system level needs, such as flexible configuration, should be addressed by systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT.
1403424~Data Requirements: Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT need a variety of data to support investigations, including data regarding demographics, cases, exposures, investigations, agents, contacts, specimen or sample collection, laboratory tests, travel and conveyance, and restriction monitoring.
350~System Functions and Behaviors: Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should support case investigation, maintain detailed and comprehensive linkages, trace contacts, and quarantine and isolation monitoring activities.
46120~Analysis, Visualization, and Report Generation: Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should enable investigators to produce both aggregated and individual reports about affected entities and events.
19458~System Integration and Data Exchange: OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT information must be exchangeable, based on established standards, between systems involved in the investigation, identification, confirmation, and reporting of a health event.
88~Vocabulary Standards: Standard vocabulary lists and data structures have been defined by standards organizations.
1~Where they exist, systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should use them.
2~As additional standards are defined, they should be accepted and implemented
5708~Operations: Personnel, roles, activities, and responsibilities necessary to support all aspects of OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be clearly defined.
11424~System Security and Availability: Security of OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT data includes the protection of data from corruption and access by unauthorized individuals, as well as the protection of the actual systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT from sabotage or other failure.
4~A plan must be established for continuing activities when systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT are unavailable.
4~Privacy: Patients, organizations, and personnel must be protected from fraudulent and unauthorized use of their information.
33970~Systems designed to support OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must offer configuration flexibility so that new data fields, entities, entity types and relationship types may be added to capture information unique to each particular health event.
2240~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must support structured data entry for common forms and fields to ensure data integrity, validity, and standardization.
32~A standardized data structure ensures that data mapping of common elements will only be necessary one time, rather than for each event.
2~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should support multiple deployment options.
5968~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should provide the ability for computers in disconnected mode to reconnect to a server to share OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT data among other computers that operate in disconnected mode.
7392~OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT data should be synchronized so that all instances of OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT applications working from the same server are able to share and use the same data.
4732~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to electronically record and store data from remote devices that may be uploaded to an aggregating system.
3~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be capable of using configurable, domain specific vocabulary.
7482~The following high level data requirements are necessary to ensure that the data being collected, analyzed, and reported to support OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT are clearly defined.
12~An entity is any being or object involved in a health event.
2~Entities may be classified as a person, organization, location, animal, object, conveyance, event, or other organism.
12~Each type of entity requires specific data to be collected.
7560~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture demographic data about persons involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: Subject ID, name, address, date of birth, gender, phone number, race, ethnicity, and country of citizenship.
1~Other descriptive details may be captured, such as occupation and work history.
1012~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data about organizations involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: organization name, location, and contact information.
1376~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data about locations involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: name, type, street address, city, state, zip code, country, GPS coordinates, and other specific details.
197200~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data about any animals involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: type, age, gender, owner's name and address, color, weight, and species.
8~A Subject ID should also be collected for animals in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation.
8~It may be a challenge to ensure unambiguous identification because demographic details of an animal are not easily identified therefore, animals involved in investigations may need to be tagged.
563584~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data for any object involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, such as a letter, invoice, food item, or any object that cannot be classified as a "person, organization, place, or animal.".
104~Collected data may include: name of the object, type, physical descriptors, address, identification number, and relevant dates and times.
39700~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data about any conveyance involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: type of conveyance, route taken, etc.
3070604~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data about any public or private gathering of people involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: time, location, nature of the event, etc.
88512~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture data about any living things other than persons or animals that are involved in an OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigation, including: type of living thing, and other customizable data collection questions.
290~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the capability to capture an entity's travel history to support investigations of entities infected, exposed or potentially exposed.
72~When a health event is investigated, it must be assigned an event identifier that is unique within the jurisdiction.
48~Data describing the health event should be captured, including the reason for the investigation, the category of event, the date the event began, the suspected agent or investigation focus, the geographic area impacted by the event, as well as the event status.
11~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to record the case definition for a health event.
14~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to capture changes to the case definition that occur as the health event evolves.
56~Travel history provides specific information to indicate when, where, and how subjects involved in an event traveled to a location, and conveyance data describes the vehicle in which the travel occurred.
12878~Examples of travel history include a person's local travel as a part of their daily activities as well as the shipment of animals or plants from one country to another.
5602~Travel history data should include information such as the method of transportation, flight number, departure and arrival dates and times, and the origination and destination locations.
5~Information about each leg of a trip, as well as the parent information about the trip, should be captured.
7140~For example, if a person who lives in Georgia travels to Seattle and becomes exposed to monkey pox, then visits a friend in Santa Fe, travel history and conveyance data should be noted accordingly for each place the exposed person traveled.
2240~Travel history data to be collected for an animal or object should include shipping invoices, animal shelter delivery and adoption receipts, and delivery schedules.
26728~Detailed conveyance data must be collected when relevant to the investigation, including the carrier identifier, the type of conveyance, as well as the make, model, year, and identification number of each vehicle with which the entity was in contact.
12~Case and exposure data provide more detailed information beyond demographic data.
1971~Cases can be persons or animals, and exposure contacts can be persons, animals, other organisms, or exposure settings, such as travel conveyance, location, organization, object, or event.
270~Because attributes of both case and exposure data may describe the same entity, systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the ability to avoid capturing redundant entity demographic information.
15360~Case data about the entity should include: a case identifier that is unique within the jurisdiction being reported, the suspected agent, case diagnosis, health status, case status, investigation dates, clinical history, symptom onset date and time, epidemiological links to other cases, and priority.
48~There must be a means to update the case diagnosis either manually or automatically if the case definition changes during an event.
12~Epidemiological data must be collected to assist in the case investigation of events.
29888~Standard Epidemiological data to be collected includes: onset date and time of symptoms, type of symptoms, risk factors, medical history data, laboratory data, procedure data, and questionnaire responses.
30~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must allow for dynamic, event specific case investigation data to be captured.
12~In the context of a case, all entities exposed to a case must be recorded and linked to the case.
228~Demographic information should be collected about the investigator, including their name, address, and contact information, so that the investigator may be contacted to answer questions or to provide additional information.
36~Both the jurisdiction investigating the event and the jurisdiction reporting the cases and associated investigations must be captured.
1136~For example, if a person becomes ill during travel in one jurisdiction but is the resident of another, the illness will be reported by the state of residence and investigated by the jurisdiction visited.
83~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to classify entities associated with the investigation as investigation controls.
20~For example, controls share demographic characteristics with the subject of the case, but are not infected with the agent that is the focus of the investigation.
8028~Exposure investigation data to be captured must include information related to exposure levels, type of exposure, place of exposure, length of time the entity was exposed, frequency of exposure, and the entity's proximity to the source of exposure.
192~Detailed data must be collected about the source of exposure as well as the exposed entity to support contact exposure tracing.
1037792~Exposure data related to both the potential source and the potential spread include the entity's type, Subject ID, Contact ID, contact's name and address, exposure dates and times, health status, and priority code.
16~Epidemiological data must be collected to assist in the exposure investigation of health events.
11456~Standard Epidemiological data to be collected for exposure investigation parallels the data to be collected for case investigation and includes: onset date and time of symptoms, type of symptoms, risk factors, laboratory data, procedure data, and questionnaire responses.
79~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must support capturing dynamic, event specific data that describes contact between two subjects.
13376~Monitoring and follow up data is used to track the progress and treatment of subjects who were exposed or potentially exposed to a health event.
3534~For more information about monitoring and follow up data, please reference "PHIN Countermeasure or Response Administration Functional Requirements and Process Flows", available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
91~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should support the monitoring and follow up activities required when tracking the status of cases and exposed individuals.
1504~Monitoring data should be collected about cases and exposed individuals who are isolated or quarantined because of a health event.
14660~Follow up data should be collected from subjects or their proxies to track symptoms and compliance with recommended treatment plans or prophylaxis.
36~Follow up data may be received from take response exams of persons who received a countermeasure that requires such an exam.
38852~Specimen or sample collection and laboratory response data supports the collection of clinical specimens, food samples, environmental samples, and other types of samples that will be tested for biological, chemical, and radiological agents.
20576~These specimens or samples can be collected from places, persons, animals, or environmental sources such as air, water, food, or soil.
144~Specimens or samples collected for laboratory testing must be assigned an identifier that is unique within the jurisdiction.
13408~The subject of a specimen or sample collected for laboratory testing must be linked to the specimen or sample by an identifier that is unique within the jurisdiction.
5528~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to store data about the specimens or samples that are collected for laboratory testing.
7952~Examples of this data are: Specimen ID, Subject ID, purpose for test, collection date and time, subject type, specimen category, specimen type, suspected agent, risk indicator, person performing specimen or sample collection, location of collection, and volume and quantity details.
68~Clinical specimen data should include information about the specimen source or site from which the specimen was taken, symptom date of onset, and whether the sample is acute or convalescent.
14176~Environmental sample data should include information about the collection method, location from which the sample was taken, source, nature of the sample, quality control data, collection begin and end date and time for air samples, and original volume and volume of concentrate tested for water samples.
12~Food sample data should include information about the lot number, batch number, manufacturer name, shipping invoice, temperature, sample type, and product storage condition.
24~Bar coding should be supported for the capture of detailed specimen or sample data to improve the quality and efficiency of data collection.
22~Chain of custody information for all specimens or samples should be captured.
5280~Chain of custody information for forensic and select agent samples must be captured, including the person who collected the sample, the location of collection, all people who came into contact with the sample during the preparation for shipment to the laboratory, and the acceptance of the package by the shipper.
274~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to create a laboratory test request for a specimen or sample or group of specimens or samples.
34~More information about creating laboratory test requests is found in section 2.5 System Integration and Data Exchange of this document.
35940~Information about batch shipments of specimens or samples that are transferred to test laboratories or other facilities must be collected, including the shipper, shipment tracking number, and the sending organization's contact information.
155162~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to support the inclusion of labeling, packaging and shipping instructions, and the shipping manifest with batch shipments of specimens or samples.
86~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to store laboratory results and link the results to the original laboratory test request.
282~More information about receiving and linking laboratory test requests is found in section 2.5 System Integration and Data Exchange of this document.
4~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must store data about laboratory results.
58176~Examples of this data include the Specimen ID, Subject ID, test date and time, test type, data for each organization involved in the testing of the specimen or sample, laboratory results and result values, other data such as unit of measure for result value, overall interpretation, and any relevant notes.
12~If the specimen or sample collection record exists, the laboratory result must be linked to the specimen collection record by the Specimen ID.
18~If the specimen or sample collection record does not exist, the laboratory result must be linked to the subject by the Subject ID.
2~All levels of granularity of results must be supported.
496800~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should capture or be linked to data regarding the prophylaxis or treatment to cases, exposed individuals, or at risk persons, including the person who ordered the prophylaxis or treatment, and the name, date, type, duration, and dosage of the treatment or prophylaxis given.
103106~For specific data requirements regarding the administration of prophylaxis and treatment, please reference PHIN Preparedness Countermeasure or Response Administration Functional Requirements and Process Flows, available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
32~Contraindication information should be collected to indicate why vaccinations, treatments, or antidotes may not have been administered or why the patient may not have complied with prescribed interventions.
662336~If an affected person suffers a negative reaction to a vaccine or prophylaxis that was administered, adverse event data may be collected and used to determine the need for additional interventions or to determine if there is a problem with the pharmaceutical, batch, or the administering facility or person.
39880~For specific data requirements regarding adverse event data, please reference PHIN Preparedness Countermeasure or Response Administration Functional Requirements and Process Flows, available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
51~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should capture information such as the date and time of an activity, activity type, who initiated the activity, and contact information to generate activity logs for management purposes.
6~Activity logs, which are tools for investigators to track their actions during a case, should be supported.
20~For example, investigators may log calls made to monitor symptoms or calls made to schedule follow up visits.
52~Activity logs may also provide information needed to support communication with various jurisdictions in the event that the investigation crosses jurisdictional boundaries.
142~For example, if a person becomes ill during travel in one jurisdiction but is the resident of another, the illness will be reported by the state of residence, rather than by the jurisdiction visited.
1~Electronic questionnaires must be developed and validated.
64~They will be designed by investigators to collect common data elements, agent specific data elements, and other customized data elements.
1~Electronic questionnaires should provide the capability to accept digital signatures.
6~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must provide the ability to control the configuration of and revisions to investigation specific questionnaires.
10~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must provide the ability to publish investigation specific questionnaires and implementation guides.
10~Case investigation should be supported by reusable questionnaire libraries that use common terminology to maximize the efficiency of data exchange.
556~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should provide a manual or automatic means of updating the status of case records as the case definition changes.
107~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should track the changes made to the status of case records as a result of changes in the case definition.
6~Linkages allow investigators to create meaningful analysis, characterize the event, and identify at risk populations.
144~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must support dynamically defined associations between entities for the purpose of defining relationships.
2~For example, person to person, person to place, animal to person, object to place, person to travel.
152472~Entity to Epidemiological data links must match the entity to their symptoms, survey questions, specimens or samples collected, laboratory results, and prophylaxis and treatment data.
4~Each new case must be able to link an assigned Entity ID to an Event ID within the scope of the investigation.
62728~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT require the ability to capture information about possible cases and potential contacts from the identification process through the treatment and follow up process, as supported by linkages among entities, events, and actions.
396~Laboratory results must be linked to corresponding specimens or samples including multiple results from one specimen or sample), and subjects when the participating laboratory returns the results.
19~These linkages must unambiguously associate multiple laboratory results to case and contact identifiers.
75~If the specimen or sample was created from another specimen or sample, laboratory results for the child specimens or samples must be linked to the corresponding parent specimen or sample.
84~Each investigation subject may be associated with exposure contacts, including unambiguous links to contacts in other jurisdictions.
4~Contacts of exposed entities may be traced, investigated, and monitored.
46~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to create new contacts from existing case records, and should also identify the contact type.
2747506~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must support contact exposure tracing by allowing one contact to be linked to multiple cases, and allowing multiple contacts to be linked to a single case.
2004~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to produce contact work lists for each investigator to use, and should allow sorting by priority or geography.
6~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should allow for analytical searches based upon multiple criteria.
30924684~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to produce charts, maps, and graphs that illustrate OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT data, such as epidemiological curves and the effect of vaccination or prophylaxis on the number of new cases or maps that illustrate the number of cases by zip code.
1065060~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should generate electronic data dictionaries for dynamic data, line lists, activity logs, aggregate data, and call back lists to assist the emergency response group and investigators in responding to and containing a health event.
11151~Reports generated by systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should clearly indicate the number of cases, the number of contacts per case, the number of cases with no known epidemiological link at the time of diagnosis, the laboratory results, and the number of vaccinations and or or treatments administered.
5942~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to produce pre formatted queries and reports to allow faster and more accurate reporting, while still allowing the flexibility of ad hoc reporting.
44~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to produce individual reports for each emergency team member or investigator.
11~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to compare characteristics of exposed and non exposed persons.
8~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should have the ability to produce lists of action items.
1866~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must have the ability to print questionnaires for multiple uses, including taking to the field, use during phone interviews, etc.
10~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to aggregate data.
168~Examples of aggregated data to be supported are: number of cases, number of contacts per case, and number of vaccinations and or or treatments administered.
632~Health event data should be aggregated into a centralized data store designed specifically to support analysis of events over time.
4~Data should be accessible for use with commonly available analytical tools.
40960~SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND DATA EXCHANGE Systems integration requirements specific to systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT are included in the section below and describe the types of data that OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to send and receive.
16~This section is limited to describing the types of data exchange that OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must support not the requirements for transporting the data.
48~Bi directional, secure exchange of data with partner organizations supports public health investigations across all levels of public health.
66918~Message construction and parsing, and secure data transport requirements that span PHIN functional areas are separately defined and should be reviewed in "PHIN Preparedness Cross Functional Components Requirements", available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
1312~Contact information for key response partner organizations should be stored in a local instance of a public health directory for associating to a health event, as described in section 2.2.2 Health event Data of this document.
26~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to accept data from other partner systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT.
9~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to create and send messages for laboratory test requests.
3429~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to receive, parse and process messages for laboratory test request responses, in accordance with PHIN Laboratory Test Order Response Message Implementation Guide, available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
9~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to receive, parse and process messages for laboratory results.
1~Laboratory results should be linked to laboratory test requests, which are linked to subjects.
1288~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to exchange messages for laboratory results with systems supporting surveillance, early event detection, and other preparedness areas.
24132~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to exchange messages for confirmed, probable and suspect cases, and the other case classifications that are noted in the PHIN message implementation guide, with systems supporting surveillance, early event detection, and other preparedness areas.
2~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must exchange messages for investigations and for exposure contacts.
30~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to receive, parse and process messages for countermeasures that have been administered.
3~Countermeasures that have been administered must be linked to the entity that was administered the countermeasures.
52~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to create and send messages for countermeasure administration requests.
34~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be able to exchange aggregated data.
168~Examples of aggregated data to be supported are: number of cases, number of contacts per case, and number of vaccinations and or or treatments administered.
3840~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should be able to provide the aggregate data necessary for health event monitoring to systems that support response tracking, such as the number of suspect cases, number of persons under isolation or quarantine, and the number of patients receiving countermeasures.
200435096~Mapping interfaces and data dictionaries must be clearly defined and included in data exchanges to indicate and describe both standard and customized fields because systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT are configurable to meet the individual needs of each event and therefore collect data specific to each event.
4~Message components should be grouped by observation type by systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT.
240~Systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT should support multiple file formats for import and export, such as databases, spreadsheets, messages, and text files, among others
180~Data exchange should support analysis and information sharing of possible health events at all levels of public health.
704~It is recommended that standards be used across systems supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT however, it is required that vocabulary standards be used when exchanging data.
48~Vocabulary requirements that span PHIN functional areas should be reviewed in "PHIN Preparedness Cross Functional Components Requirements", available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
25160~Operational requirements, such as system backup policies and procedures, continuity of operations, system monitoring, and employee training ensure that public health partners can effectively support activities in OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT and other PHIN functional areas.
2~Operational requirements specific to OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT are defined below.
33~Operational requirements that span PHIN functional areas are separately defined and should be reviewed in "PHIN Preparedness Cross Functional Components Requirements", available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
24~Policies and procedures for communicating information to appropriate stakeholders should be clearly defined.
564~Polices regarding data synchronization should be defined to support multiple deployment options as discussed in section 2.1 System Architecture of this document.
4~Configuration management protocols and personnel should be identified to support multiple deployment options.
1040~Protocols and personnel should be identified to support the set up and configuration of laptops and other field devices used in OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT investigations.
556500~Processes and personnel should be identified to support agent specific deployment packages, including syndromic grouping libraries and vocabulary sub sets, which will be used to efficiently collect data specific to the particular health event being investigated.
9330~Policies and procedures should be in place for determining when follow up and isolation and quarantine monitoring should be done as a part of a focused countermeasure administration and response effort, rather than as a function of contact exposure tracing.
2876~Systems and data supporting OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT must be protected from sabotage, corruption and unauthorized access, and must be available subsequent to a catastrophic event.
129~Security and Availability requirements that span PHIN functional areas should be reviewed in "PHIN Preparedness Cross Functional Components Requirements", available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
3~Privacy requirements ensure that sensitive information is not accessibly to unauthorized uses.
7~Privacy requirements are broadly defined because they span all PHIN functional areas.
3~These requirements should be reviewed in "PHIN Preparedness Cross Functional Components Requirements", available at www.cdc.gov or phin.
4~The Get Real site should work and be tested against IE, Firefox and Netscape.
2~The Get Real site should be hosted on a server that can provide adequate response time.
48~High school students tend to have short attentions spans, so a slow server would not be satisfactory for this application.
2~The current OUS site is a good example of rapid response time.
14~Copyright and other security measures for Get Real should be the same as the OUS site.
865443~There is a need to track and evaluate the hits and time spent on the student focused website over time and make content, design, and navigation changes as needed based on evaluation of hits.
20~Web design conventions should be consistent with the standards and conventions used on the OUS site.
39~ETCS shall provide the driver with information to allow him to drive the train safely.
2~ETCS shall be able to supervise train and shunting movements.
184~If the supervision is performed by a RBC it shall be possible to prevent movements of a traction unit in its area if not authorised by the RBC.
116~ETCS is required to be functional to a maximum train speed of 500 kmh.
80~It shall be possible to implement one or more of the ETCS application levels on a line.
200526~Trains equipped for ERTMS or ETCS application level 3 shall be able to run on lines equipped with ERTMS or ETCS application level 3, 2, 1 and 0.
132874~trains equipped for ERTMS or ETCS application level 2 shall be able to run on lines equipped with ERTMS or ETCS application level 2, 1 and 0.
67874~trains equipped for ERTMS or ETCS application level 1 shall be able to run on lines equipped with ERTMS or ETCS application level 1 and 0.
8~The current application level shall be indicated on the DMI.
2~The driver shall acknowledge the level transitions, if requested from trackside.
6~If the driver does not acknowledge after the transition the brake shall be applied.
1~If the driver acknowledges afterwards, the brake can be released
33408~ETCS shall be compatible with existing national systems listed in the CCS TSI such that it does not interfere with the national systems and is not interfered with by the national systems.
39~Any transition which occurs while the train is moving shall in principle occur automatically.
2~Transitions which occur while the train is stationary, shall be initiated automatically or manually as appropriate.
208~If, as a result of an automatic transition, except for transitions to and from National Operation (STM), the responsibility for the driver increases, the ETCS shall seek an acknowledgement from the driver, whether the train is stationary or not.
24~For transitions to and from National Operation (STM) the ETCS shall request, an acknowledgement by the driver.
39~In case the transition has to be acknowledged and the driver fails to acknowledge as required, the ETCS shall initiate a brake application
12~During the transition period between two operational states (including two different national operations) the supervision provided shall at least ensure the same protection provided by the least restrictive state.
256770~If an ETCS equipped train passes a level transition to a line fitted with more than one level, the onboard shall switch to the highest level, according to the priority given by trackside, for which it is equipped.
1450~If an ETCS equipped train passes a level transition to one or more levels for which it is not equipped, ETCS shall initiate a brake application.
8~The current operational status shall be indicated to the driver on the DMI
91~The ETCS on board shall be capable of receiving National values from the trackside to adapt to National requirements
2~National values shall be applicable to a defined area
12~Once received onboard the national values shall remain valid even if the onboard equipment is switched off
24~If the on board has no valid national values for the current location, default values shall be used by the onboard equipment.
8~Default values shall be harmonised values, permanently stored in all ERTMS or ETCS on board equipment
2~At Start Up, the on board equipment shall perform an automatic self test.
3~The test shall require no action on the part of the driver.
2~The DMI shall indicate the result of the self test.
2~Train data shall be entered before the on board ETCS equipment allows train movement.
8~The driver shall be able to select Train Data Entry on the DMI.
16~Entering or overwriting data manually by the driver shall be possible but only when stationary.
2~Train data may be entered automatically from a railway management system or from train memory.
12~The driver shall be able to consult train data when the train is stationary or moving.
8~Current train data shall be stored (except at transition to shunting) in the ETCS equipment until the traction unit is not operative.
10~Stored train data shall be offered to the driver to be confirmed when Data Entry starts.
120~The system for Train Data Entry shall provide for the input of other data required by STMs connected to ETCS.
10~This may require additional items, not required for ETCS, to be entered.
4~The entry of driver identification and the selection of the language shall be possible.
5~The change of driver identification during a journey or a Train Running Number shall be possible
8~Following successful completion of Train Data Entry, the driver shall be able to perform shunting movements or train movements.
44~The following data may be entered manually by the driver provided by external sources:
32~If the onboard fails to contact the RBC when awakening the driver shall be asked to enter the RBC contact details
144~An ETCS equipped traction unit shall be capable of being moved in Shunting without train data, track data or movement authority.
2~Transfer to Shunting on driver's selection shall only be possible when stationary.
620~To prevent unauthorised use of the function permission shall be obtained from the RBC if the train is operating under the control of the RBC.
1~Permission received shall be indicated to the driver.
192~It shall be possible to manually select Shunting from Stand By operation, Full Supervision operation or Partial Supervision operation
36608~Automatic transfer to Shunting may be from Full Supervision operation and Partial Supervision operation status at any speed lower than or equal to the supervised shunting speed based on trackside information.
4~Before authomatic transition to Shunting, ETCS shall request confirmation from the driver.
4~ETCS shall supervise Shunting operation to a permitted national speed value.
2~The supervised Shunting speed shall be indicated to the driver on request.
96~It shall be possible to apply the train trip function, if the shunting movement passes a signal showing "danger for shunting".
1~Exit from Shunting shall only be possible when the train is stationary.
1~Exit from Shunting shall take place when the driver selects exit from shunting.
12~Partial Supervision shall be selected either by the Driver, or by information received from track to train transmission.
4~If acknowledgement is specified the driver shall acknowledge transfer from Full Supervision to Partial Supervision within 5 seconds
2~Partial Supervision shall be indicated on the DMI.
42~In Partial Supervision the train shall be supervised according to train speed and distance data available.
21~The train shall have the capability of being supervised to a ceiling speed.
4~This ceiling speed shall not be shown continually on the DMI but may be shown momentarily when selected by the driver.
12~The train shall leave Partial Supervision when the trainborne equipment is not operative any longer, when Shunting is selected or when Full Supervision is available.
8~It shall be possible to order a train trip when passing a stop signal
39~Transferring to Full Supervision shall occur automatically when a movement authority and all other necessary information is received through track to train transmission.
4020~It shall be possible for the trackside to ask a driver for confirmation about the occupancy of the track ahead before sending a Full Supervision movement authority.
1~Full Supervision shall provide supervision of speed and distance.
258~The trainborne equipment shall remain in Full Supervision until the trainborne equipment is not active any longer, when Shunting is selected or when Partial Supervision information is received.
4~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall be capable of being isolated.
80~When the ETCS trainborne equipment is isolated, the system shall not show any ETCS information other than the fact that the system is isolated.
4~Isolation of the ETCS trainborne equipment shall disconnect the ETCS trainborne equipment from the vehicle braking system.
128~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall be capable of receiving information from the national train control systems by means of the STM.
8~The DMI shall display or be compatible with information from national train control systems.
12~This may mean displaying the information shown by the national system.
2~Unfitted operation shall be possible if ordered by trackside
2~Unfitted operation shall be possible if selected by the driver at start up
2~The on board shall supervise the train against a ceiling speed
10~The ceiling speed value for the unfitted operation is determined by the lower value out of Maximum train speed, National value for unfitted operation
10~The onboard shall be capable to switch to another ETCS status when transmitted from trackside
7~The ETCS on board shall be capable of receiving track description from the trackside.
60~It shall be possible to send information on adhesion conditions from trackside.
284~It shall also be possible, to allow the driver to change the adhesion conditions in this case information from trackside has priority.
13~The trackside shall be able to send information for the calculation of speed profiles.
8~If track data at least to the location where the relevant movement authority ends are not available on board, the movement authority shall be rejected.
20~Track to train transmission shall provide the capability to send different speed profiles for specific train categories.
1~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall supervise the end of movement authority, if this information is available on board.
8~The target distance to be displayed on the DMI shall be based on the most restrictive braking curve.
1392~Together with the movement authority, the on board shall be able to receive one or more time out(s) for certain sections of the movement authority, and shorten the movement authority accordingly when a time out expires.
1020~Using train data and infrastructure data, braking curves shall be calculated taking into account the target information but not the location of vehicles occupying the track.
38~The ceiling speed level for the movement authority shall be defined as data National Value.
2~Before entering an occupied track, a driver acknowledgement shall be requested.
10~The train shall be supervised according to train speed data available.
72~The train shall, as a minimum, be supervised to a ceiling speed the supervised speed shall not be shown on the DMI unless selected by the driver.
4~The target distance shall not be shown on the DMI unless selected by the driver.
16~On request of the RBC, the driver shall have the possibility to confirm that the track ahead of him until the end of the on sight section is clear
4~ETCS shall collect all relevant information concerning train and line speed.
9~ETCS shall calculate the permitted speed for the train for all locations of the authorised movement.
526~This static train speed profile shall also respect maximum line speed and track speed and special speed levels for special classes of trains.
64~The ETCS trainborne equipment calculates the static train speed profile on the basis of infrastructure data and train data.
32~Based on all relevant data, the ETCS shall calculate an emergency braking curve and a service braking curve
12~When changing to a lower speed level, the front end of the train shall respect the dynamic train speed profile.
8~When changing to a higher speed level the rear end of the train shall respect the static train speed profile.
46~It shall be possible to define certain locations (for example tunnels) where speed increase is related to the front of the train.
4~The braking curves shall ensure that the train complies with its speed requirements.
2~Where failure to apply the full service brake is detected the emergency brake shall stop the train in rear of the danger point.
2~The release speed shall be calculated on board, based on either: or given from the trackside.
40~The release speed given from the trackside shall take priority over the release speed calculated on board.
6~safety distance and overlap, accuracy of odometry, deceleration performance of the train, etc
2~The release speed shall be indicated on the DMI.
8~If the release speed is calculated on board it shall ensure that the train will stop before reaching the danger point
24~When the train is stationary or after a certain time (for example the time for "route releasing" of the overlap, the release speed calculation shall be based on the distance to the danger point (if calculated on board).
8~The condition for this change shall be defined for each target as infrastructure data.
9~Each railway shall have the possibility of allowing a different release speed for every signal.
2~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall be able to determine the location of the entire train.
56~On lines fitted with RBC, the ETCS trainborne equipment shall be able to transmit the location of the entire train to the RBC.
1~The train location calculation shall take into account error of odometry.
2~Actual speed shall be indicated on the DMI
1616~There shall be no discrepancy between the speed shown to the driver and the speed used for supervision of movement authorities and speed limits, function
43~The indication provided shall enable the driver to drive at the permitted speed without receiving a warning and without intervention of ETCS.
36~The driver shall know the distance to the next point defining the indicated braking curve and the permitted speed allowed.
17~This shall be shown to the driver in a way that is understandable and logical.
55~Visual and acoustic warnings to the driver about possible intervention from ETCS shall be given to enable the driver to react and avoid intervention.
18~The driver shall have the possibility to select the language, this does not concern non pre defined texts sent from the trackside.
4~A train shall be supervised to its static and dynamic train speed profiles.
2124~Within the braking curve area, a warning shall be given to the driver to enable him to react and avoid intervention from ETCS equipment at least 5 seconds before the intervention.
42~If the train or the shunting movement exceeds the permitted ceiling speed by a certain harmonised margin, the trainborne equipment shall execute a brake intervention until the actual speed does not exceed permitted speed then the driver shall be able to release the brake
18~The driver shall be able to release an ETCS emergency brake application when stationary.
12~If decided by a national value, the driver may release the ETCS emergency brake when the actual speed is below the permitted speed.
96~To protect a traction unit from roll away and unwanted reverse movements the trainborne equipment shall monitor the direction of movement in relation to the permitted direction.
10~The trainborne equipment shall apply the emergency brake after a distance, defined by a national value, is travelled by the train.
10~The roll away or reverse movement intervention shall be indicated on the DMI.
4~When the traction unit has come to a standstill, the driver shall be able to release the emergency brake.
34~After releasing the emergency brake ETCS will provide the supervision appertaining when roll away protection was initiated
8~When using more than one traction unit this function shall be disabled in all but the leading traction unit.
20~All data entered, received or indicated to the driver shall be recorded onboard.
8~All data shall be related to UTC (Universal Time Corrected) and a reference point.
14~Information shall be recorded to an accuracy which enables a clear view of the functioning of ETCS and way the traction unit has been driven.
46~Standardised output interfaces shall enable transmission of information recorded to other media for investigation
100~The retention period for the recorded data will be different and two levels are foreseen: Data to enable investigation of accidents need only be stored for at least 24 hours, and shall be very detailed., Operational data to enable assessment of driver performance shall be stored for at least one week.
1512~It shall be possible to use multiple traction units without isolating the ETCS trainborne equipment on traction unit(s) with an in operative cab.
8~Information received shall not influence the traction unit(s) with in operative cabs.
8~The train trip function shall be suppressed in traction unit(s) with in operative cabs.
52~It shall be possible to use tandem traction units without isolating the ETCS trainborne equipment on the tandem traction unit.
1~The train trip function shall be suppressed on the tandem traction unit.
1~The driver shall enter the driver ID
648~It shall be possible to drive the train backwards in a supervised way (speed and distance) according to information received from trackside
15~The train speed shall be at or below a speed specified by a national value.
2~The driver shall select an override control according to the permission received.
1~The override control shall be protected against inadvertent operation.
1~When the train passes the stop signal, the train trip function shall be suppressed.
267~The train shall be capable of receiving any track to train information intended and relevant for this train including movement authority.
192~If supervised by an RBC it shall be possible to command an emergency stop to all trains in a particular area or to a specific train
4~It shall be possible to command an immediate train stop.
4~It shall be possible to command a conditional emergency stop.
3~If the train has already passed the location for the emergency stop the command shall be ignored
2~When a train has received an emergency stop ETCS shall command the emergency brake.
4~The emergency stop shall be indicated to the driver on the DMI.
52~It shall be possible to prevent a train from entering a route for which it does not meet the required criteria.
2~Route unsuitability shall be indicated on the DMI.
3~The driver shall be able to override the function when the train is stationary.
1~After overriding this function the movement authority shall be re established.
2~When a traction unit passes a stop signal the emergency brake shall be triggered.
2~Operation of the train trip shall be indicated on the DMI.
1~The emergency brake shall be applied until the traction unit is stationary.
4~When the traction unit is stationary the driver shall be required to acknowledge the train trip condition, This acknowledgement will release the emergency brake.
2~After the acknowledgement the driver shall be able to continue the movement
26~After the acknowledgement the train shall be able to be driven backwards for a certain distance defined by national value
4~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall transmit its own train identification to the RBC.
2~The train running number shall consist of a maximum of 8 numeric digits.
480~On demand, the position of the front end of the train at the time of the demand shall be indicated on the DMI, This shall be possible while the train is moving or stationary.
19~The ETCS on board shall be capable of receiving information about pantograph and power supply from the trackside.
8~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall indicate on the DMI the information regarding pantograph and power supply.
11525~The information regarding lowering and raising of the pantograph and opening or closing of the circuit breaker shall be provided separately and in combinations.
20~The ETCS on board shall be capable of receiving information regarding air tightness from the trackside.
16~It shall be possible to send plain text messages from track to train.
8~When the plain text message appears on the DMI, the driver shall be alerted.
4~The onboard equipment shall display plain text messages as received.
3~The character set used shall support different languages.
8~It shall be possible to send fixed text messages from track to train
6~Fixed text messages shall be provided in the language selected by the driver
768~It shall be possible to send information regarding the inhibition of the following different types of brake: Regenerative brake, Eddy current brake, Magnetic shoe brake
2~Information shall be shown on the DMI
178~The ETCS on board shall be capable of sending to the trackside train integrity information detected by a system outside ETCS
14~The driver shall be able to confirm the train integrity to the RBC manually.
3~The confirmation requires the train to be stationary.
64~The on board shall be capable of sending train data to the trackside after confirmation by the driver, or when entering the RBC area
2082~It shall be possible to revoke a Movement Authority that has already been issued to a train in a cooperative way between RBC and train.
4~The cooperative revocation of the MA shall be possible to a new target location, proposed from RBC.
2~The new target location shall be checked for acceptance by the on board.
4~If a train cannot stop at the proposed new target location it shall reject the request and keep the old target location.
27~The Reversing function shall only be possible in one active cab which is not closed at any time during the procedure.
12~Reversing shall be possible as defined by a value given with the MA
116~The driver shall be able to use the Reversing function without needing to re confirm the train data.
52~Reversing shall be supervised to a distance and speed set as National Values
1~The distance supervised can be extended from the trackside.
20~Once the train starts reversing the MA shall be cancelled.
47~The train shall be able to automatically pass from one RBC area to another without driver intervention.
720~If the train is equipped with two operational radios there shall be no performance penalty as a result of a transition from one RBC to another (train spacing and train speed).
27~If the train is equipped with only one operational radio, passing from one RBC to another shall still be possible but might result in a performance penalty.
208~In the event of a Transmission Failure the following reactions, shall be capable of being applied in accordance with a National Value.
24~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall immediately command the emergency brake, The failure shall be shown on the DMI.
24~The ETCS trainborne equipment shall immediately command the full service brake, The failure shall be shown on the DMI.
48~The train may proceed unrestricted to the end of its movement authority, The indication on the DMI shall remain, and the driver shall be informed about the loss of transmission.
54~If there are failures of the trainborne equipment which compromise the safety of train supervision, the ETCS trainborne equipment shall immediately command the brake and bring the train to a stop.
2~The occurrence of a failure shall be displayed on the DMI.
2~In ETCS with RBC this restriction on performance shall, if possible be transmitted to the RBC.
1~KeePass must be downloaded and installed
6~Master Password has no limits in length, A whole sentence can be used with more than 100 characters.
4~Folder selected must be of type the database can read and that is name dot kdb
10~Databases must have different names or else the previews one will be replace if selected
96~There must be entries in the database in order for them to be printed
30~All data related to the word must be shown, For example if user types "abc" and abc is part of a password and of a username, both entries must be shown
30~A name is required in order for the new group or subgroup to be created
1~A subgroup cannot be created when no group is selected
20~A name is required in order for the group or subgroup to be renamed
13~In order to find something in a group a word must be placed in the find field
2~An entry must belong to a group to be created
1~When the password field is completed the repeat password field must be completed
1~Password field and repeat password field must be identical
2~An entry must be selected to be viewed or modified
1~When the password field is changed the repeat password field must be Changed and be identical with password field
2~An entry must be selected before it is duplicated
1~An entry must be selected to be deleted
3~An internet connection and a browser are required in order to download new language translations
3~The prefix "Auto Type:" is required in front of each sequence
3~Sequence's length must not be more than a line (59 characters)
14~If two auto types are referred in one note field, only the first is used
4~Only one database file is allowed in command line options
6~In case a space is found in the path, it must be enclosed into quotes
5~If a master password is required to unlock the database, the database doesn't open unless the password is entered
5~If a key file is required to unlock the database, the database doesn't open unless the key file is present
135~If there is a composite key, both master password and key file are required
2~In case of lost master password or key file, the database never unlocks again, There is no recovery
4~There is no backdoor or key that unlocks all databases
1~File formats are not specialized password database formats
14~File formats only specify a low level layout of stored data
1~Global hot key cannot be changed
1~According to restriction rules that are applied every time.
2~Title, username or URL cannot be changed in a TAN entry.
2~When a TAN is used, it expires automatically and can never be used again.
281~Internet connection and a browser are required in order for several functions to be executed such as downloading plugins
204~Liability: In law a legal liability is a situation in which a person or organisation is financially and legally responsible.
369658~The liability of the organisation that governs infrastructure and mapping facility has to be defined in order to ensure trust into the system and particular mapping results?
18~The Liability of organisation that governs the infrastructure and mapping facility MUST be defined
42~Sustainability: Sustainability is the capacity to maintain a certain process or state into the future.
2~The governing model must ensure that the state of the mapping system will be kept over time.
13~Therefore the mapping system has to be based on the commonly agreed mapping and no changes are allowed without a common agreement.
9~The mapping facility MUST ensure sustainability of the system over time based on commonly agreed mapping schemes.
4468~Maintainability: The mapping has to be easily maintainable which could be of interest in the case of changes of the legal basis on national or European level.
5~A formal procedure has to be found how changes are applied to the system.
10~Moreover an organisation or institution that governs the process of change management has to be defined.
1~A formal procedure to make changes to the system MUST be defined.
4~Provision of an update mechanism maintained by the individual Member State.
4~The pre VCD mapping tool is openly accessible for economic operators and contracting authorities etc.
2~The tool interface is available in the official languages of the European Union.
6792502~A powerful search mechanism is implemented to deliver good results when economic operators query the pre VCD mapping tool in order to understand what evidences he can deliver to confer to the selection and exclusion criteria set in a public tender in another Member State.
231648~The results are delivered in a format simple to use for the economic operators for example a check list of evidences he can collect from respective issuing bodies in his country, which fulfil the selection criteria and prove the non conformance with exclusion criteria set by the contracting authority from a different Member State.
436~The Member States shall agree on a common representation format for the information they intend to supply into the knowledge base supporting the tool's operations.
48~The Member States shall supply the information generated from the analysis of the national context they represent.
8~The Member States need to update the mapping in case of any change within a short time frame (for example five days after a legal change has been put into force).
68~The European service provider for the pre VCD mapping tool has to ensure that European legal changes are implemented quickly (for example within five days after enforcement).
47914~The European service provider takes responsibility of the operative implementation and compliance of the mapping model implemented in the pre VCD mapping tool with the respective European and national conditions.
252~Hence, it must be established and funded with clearly defined responsibilities for maintenance and conformance assessment between national solutions.
5~The European service provider sets up a formal definition of the tool generated results.
2~The European service provider defines the criteria for a "service contract" to be formally agreed with "users".
23~Identity and access management MUST provide a functionality to register an economic operator in a formal procedure in order to create a VCD account.
2528~Identity and access management MUST provide an interface to submit sensitive economic operator data (for example by uploading attestations that verify sensitive economic operator data) in order to allow the economic operator to apply for the creation of a VCD account.
6~Sensitive economic operator data MUST be verified through a formal procedure by an officer.
5~An officer has to create a VCD account for the economic operator.
2~Sensitive economic operator data MUST be placed to a VCD account by an officer.
52~Identity and access management MUST provide a functionality that enables the economic operator to receive his log in data.
72~The authentication within identity and access management SHOULD provide a single sign on functionality that can be used across other systems.
30~A change procedure MUST be defined in order to modify sensitive economic operator data that is connected to the VCD account.
2~The economic operator MUST be able to delete his account.
4~MUST be clearly defined which economic operator data are sensitive and belong to identity and access management.
34~A single sign on SHOULD be implemented in order to allow identity and access management across different systems.
233~The identity and access management procedures for creating a VCD account SHOULD be harmonized with the registration procedure of the overall infrastructure provided by WP8.
256~The VCD System SHOULD make use of a single sign on interface and function in order to submit login data.
8~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality to check through identity and access management whether an economic operator has sufficient user rights to access his account.
6~The VCD system MUST provide an interface where the economic operator can provide nonsensitive economic operator data.
12~The VCD system MUST provide an interface where tender specific data can be either fetched from or be provided through (for example criteria of qualitative selection and exclusion).
4~The VCD system MUST provide an interface where the economic operator can request the creation of a VCD package.
14~The VCD system MUST have an interface to receive and process the information (mapping of evidence) provided by the pre VCD mapping tool.
46~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality that suggests a possible compilation of the VCD to the economic operator according to the tender specific criteria.
8~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality where the economic operator can decide which particular attestation services should be invoked and collected.
726~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality that displays the attestation services that cannot be invoked automatically and that have to be manually added by the economic operator.
200~The VCD system must provide a functionality to request attestations that can be collected automatically via an issuing body.
626~The VCD system MUST have an interface or technical access to retrieve attestations that can be automatically retrieved from issuing bodies.
24~The VCD system MUST have a functionality to extract structural data of evidence from attestations that can be retrieved automatically.
16~The VCD system MUST have an interface to submit or upload evidence that have to be provided manually by the economic operator.
27~The evidence submitted to the VCD system MUST correspond to the mapping information suggested by the VCD system (or the pre VCD mapping tool).
11~The VCD system MUST provide an interface where an economic operator can add structural data of evidence that belong to specific evidence.
4~The VCD system SHOULD provide an interface where a translator or economic operator can submit certified translations to specific evidence.
3~The VCD system MUST provide and interface where the economic operator can initiate the compilation process.
84~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add structural VCD package data to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process.
232~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add tender specific data to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process.
116~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add economic operator data to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process.
232~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add tender specific data to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process.
120~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add structural data of evidence to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process
2~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add evidences to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process.
78~The VCD package MUST provide a functionality to add translations to the VCD package and VCD system (for example log file) during the compilation process
14~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality to notify the economic operator when the compilation process is finished.
2~The VCD system MUST provide interfaces to deliver the VCD to the economic operator.
2~VCD system MUST be operated by at least one national VCD service provider
1~The VCD system MUST have the status of a trusted system.
2~The national VCD service provider that hosts the system must have the status of a trusted entity.
208~Direct access to attestations issued by (national) issuing bodies MUST be established through organisational agreements (for example service level agreements).
14~Technical access to the relevant attestations issued by (national) issuing SHOULD be supported through national law.
28~The compilation suggestion that is given to the economic operator by the VCD system MUST be reliable with regard to fulfilment of tender specific requirements.
1~User rights for the VCD system MUST be defined.
1~Structural data of evidence MUST be defined.
24~Semantic interoperability of structural data of evidence SHOULD be ensured through an agreement procedure among the WP partners.
36~The evidence submitted to the VCD system MUST be eligible for the requirements mentioned by §§45– 46 of European Directive 2004 or 18 or EC.
66~The VCD transportation system MUST provide a functionality that enables both parties involved, contracting authorities and economic operators, to authenticate to the VCD transportation system before using it.
252~The authentication to the VCD transportation system SHOULD make use of single sign in interface and function in order to submit login data.
152~The VCD transportation system MUST provide a functionality that enables the economic operator to find an electronic address of a contracting authority for receiving VCD packages.
170~The VCD transportation system MUST have an interface to connect to it in order to submit the VCD package to a contracting authority.
14~The VCD transportation system MUST provide a functionality that supports the economic operator in submitting the VCD package to a contracting authority.
3292~The VCD transportation system SHOULD provide a functionality that supports the economic operator in submitting the VCD package to a contracting authorities' procurement platform where the tender or bid has to be placed.
4~The transportation system MUST provide an interface that enables contracting authorities to receive a VCD.
4752~Both parties involved, contracting authorities and economic operators, MUST have an electronic address for receiving or sending VCD packages.
6~The transport of a VCD package MUST be initiated by the economic operator.
2~The choice of how to submit the VCD package to the contracting authority MUST be the one that is preferred by the economic operator.
1141~Beside the transportation system (WP8) the economic operator SHOULD be able to use other electronic channels for submitting a VCD package to the contracting authority.
42~It MUST be clarified which possibilities exist to utilize the infrastructure for submitting a VCD package directly to procurement platforms (for example via VPN).
21~The transportation system MUST ensure that the VCD package is being delivered to the contracting authority
5~The transport of a VCD package MUST be confidential.
5~The transport of a VCD package MUST be reliable.
5~The transport of a VCD package MUST be secure.
7~The transport of a VCD package MUST ensure that the package has not been altered or modified during transportation or validation.
2~Non repudiation of origin of a VCD package MUST be supported.
1409~A VCD will carry a unique identifier and information about security and quality enhancing policies used by the certified VCD Service Provider when compiling the file.
2~The VCD viewing system MUST provide a functionality to authenticate contracting authorities to view the data contained within a VCD package.
568~The authentication to the VCD viewing system SHOULD make use of single sign on interface and function in order to submit login data.
2~The VCD viewing system MUST display structural VCD package data contained in the VCD package
4~The VCD viewing system MUST display tender specific data contained in the VCD package
2~The VCD viewing system MUST display economic operator data contained in the VCD package
4~The VCD viewing system MUST display tender specific data contained in the VCD package
2~The VCD viewing system MUST display structural data of evidence contained in the VCD package
4~The VCD viewing system MUST display evidences contained in the VCD package
1~The VCD viewing system MUST display translations of evidences contained in the VCD package
26~Member State of this work package SHOULD follow a common standard representation of the different types of data
60~Member State of this work package SHOULD define a national version of the common standard representation of the different types of data.
16~Any standard representation of the different types of data MUST be agreed upon the pilot partners.
18~A method (for example reverse engineering) to develop a standard representation of the different types of data SHOULD be defined.
1~A method for the versioning of the development of this common standard schema SHOULD be found.
7840~A VCD system MUST provide functionality to collect and process context specific data for evidence that has to be provided manually or semi automatically by the issuing body, by the economic operator or any trusted third party.
64~A VCD system MUST provide functionality to collect and process context specific data for evidence that has to be provided automatically by the issuing body.
4~A VCD system MUST provide IT interfaces to issuing bodies which provide evidences in machine interpretable format.
7~A VCD system MUST interact with the issuing bodies which provide evidences in machine interpretable format through IT interfaces.
12~A VCD system MUST provide a user interface to the issuing body to provide context specific data for an evidence in a structured form (for example web interface, XML file upload).
288~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality to validate the provided context specific data during the submission process of context specific data to ensure the data is consistent with the VCD advanced package schema.
608~Interfaces MUST be defined to retrieve context specific data from issuing bodies either automatically or semi automatically.
240~Interfaces SHOULD be defined that enable national VCD service providers to approve context specific data if they decide to take the role of a trusted third party.
66~The rule set derived from legal requirements concerning "evidence checking" MUST be defined.
92~he rule set allowing for a Stage 3 mapping among concepts expressed by the "context specific data" MUST be defined.
68~The rule set derived from legal requirements concerning subcontracting and other consortium constellations MUST be defined
10~A functionality to display context specific data SHOULD or MUST be included within any VCD.
144~Any VCD advanced package MUST follow a common standard schema of context specific data that summarize and structure major information contained within context specific evidences.
1~Context specific data MUST be machine interpretable
32~Evidences that have a simple structure and limited variety of contents MUST be included into the common standard schema first.
56640~WP2 SHOULD provide easy solutions for transforming the contents of context specific evidence into simple context specific representations (for example a Balance sheet can have several values but an easy representation could be the fulfilment of certain ranges for example below 1 Million or from 1 Million to 10 or …).
1616~A semantic definition of each element or class of the common standard schema of context specific data MUST be created and has to ensure a common understanding.
7488~A semantic definition of each element or class of the common standard schema of context specific data MUST ensure that these data is mutually recognized as replacement of the official translation of an evidences included.
128~A method and agreement procedure to develop a common standard schema of context specific data MUST be defined.
118128~This procedure must cover the technical aspects of data analysis (for example reverse engineering) as well as the organizational aspects (for example which context specific data is required from contracting authorities or under which circumstances would they would replace certified translation of evidence by context specific data).
4~Any common standard schema of context specific data classes MUST be agreed upon the pilot partners.
2~Representation of context specific data SHOULD be available in multiple languages
144~Every pilot partner MUST follow the common standard schema of context specific data by defining a national version of it.
1~A method for versioning the development of common standard schema of context specific data SHOULD be found.
19~A VCD system MUST provide a user interface to the economic operator to initiate the creation of a VCD advanced package.
28~A VCD system MUST provide a user interface to the economic operator to provide existing VCD packages of other economic operators when specific disclosure options have been activated.
48~A VCD system MUST provide a functionality to check, whet her the structural VCD package data of existing VCD packages of other economic operators are consistent with the VCD advanced package schema of other economic operators, or not
880~A VCD system MUST provide a functionality to check, whether the tender specific data of existing VCD packages are consistent with the tender specific data of other VCD packages.
54~A VCD system MUST provide functionality to merge the following data from several existing VCD packages of other economic operators:
1448~A VCD system MUST provide functionality to compile the data which result from the evidence collection process and the data provided by the economic operator in the VCD advanced package creation.
174~Merging of VCD simple packages and VCD advanced packages into a VCD advanced package SHOULD be possible
96~A VCD system MUST provide a user interface to the economic operator to initiate the recompilation of an existing VCD package into a VCD advanced package.
10~A VCD system MUST provide a user interface to the economic operator for uploading an existing VCD package
2~A VCD system MUST provide a functionality to decompose an existing VCD package
27~A VCD system MUST provide a functionality to identify outdated or obsolete evidences
1~A VCD system must provide a functionality to retrieve actual instances of outdated evidences
2~Re compiling a VCD simple package into a VCD advanced package MUST be possible
6~Re compiling a VCD advanced package into a VCD advanced package MUST be possible
124~structured) context specific data by manual means in order to create context specific data using the semi automated approach.
1344~The VCD system MUST provide functionality and an interface to the economic operator that enables him to mandate a certain contracting authority to request attestations on demand.
2784~The VCD system MUST detect which attestations can be used by this feature (for example they have to be sufficiently described through context specific data and structural data of evidence).
2~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality that enables National VCD Service Providers to store attestations.
10~A functionality for referencing to attestations MUST be implemented within the VCD system.
24~The VCD system MUST ensure that a contracting authority is able to request attestations via the provided reference (including time restrictions).
2232~The functionality for referencing to attestations within the VCD MUST be implemented, either VCD specific or contracting authority specific, in order to approve whether the contracting authority has sufficient rights for requesting the attestations.
33~VCD specific or contracting authority specific reference to attestations MUST be stored within the VCD system (processing instructions).
6~The VCD system MUST provide a functionally to check whether a contracting authority has sufficient rights and has been mandated by the economic operator to retrieve attestations.
80~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality and an interface that enables contracting authorities to retrieve the attestation from the storage.
40~The VCD system MUST ensure that the attestation that is requested by the contracting authority is still valid at the time of awarding or when the Call for Tender is closed.
12~The VCD system MUST provide a functionality that initiates a conflict resolution process between economic operator and contracting authority if errors occur or when certain attestation or a translation cannot be delivered on demand.
144288~The VCD system SHOULD provide a functionality to approve attestations through validation data and to make this approval visible within a VCD networked package when a National VCD Service provider takes the role of a national validation point in accordance with Article 52 (1) of Directive 2004 or 18 or EC and EFTA EEA Committee decision 68 or 2006.
18600~There MUST be an access policy that is issued by the economic operator that mandates a contracting authority to request attestation from the national VCD service provider on demand.
1~A general reference structure and syntax MUST be defined.
40168190~This may include creating contracting authority specific or VCD specific references in order to identify a mandate that has been given by the economic operator to this contracting authority for retrieving attestation or even updates on it.
3232~National and local political commitments and service level agreements MUST ensure that consensuses on roles and responsibilities are built with regard to this solution and in particular the National Service Providers who delivers attestations on demand.
6336~There MUST be a service level agreement between the parties involved (Economic Operators, Contracting authorities, National Service Providers, and Trusted Attestation Service) about the response time of a delivery of attestations and data availability.
393840~There MUST be a service level agreement between the parties involved (Economic Operators, Contracting authorities, National Service Providers, and Trusted Attestation Service) about conflict resolution that describe what to do when errors occur or when attestation or translations cannot be delivered "on demand".
23~The attestations where an agreement on context specific formats can be reached most easily SHOULD be included first into the network.
36~WP2 SHOULD provide easy solutions for displaying context specific data and should enable their validation through validation values
884~Legal systems MUST ensure that context specific data and validation values have an equivalent value to the provision of conventional or traditional attestations (Scope of mutual recognition).
1950~The National Service Providers SHOULD establish validation points in order to approve an economic operator in accordance with Article 52 (1) of Directive 2004 or 18 or EC.
256~The national procurement law MUST ensure that National Service Provider can act as national validation points in accordance with Article 52 (1) of Directive 2004 or 18 or EC for economic operators.
720~Liability issues of the National Service Providers MUST be clarified when they act as national validation points in accordance with Article 52 (1) of Directive 2004 or 18 or EC for economic operators.
172~National procedures with regard to Article 52 (1) of Directive 2004 or 18 or EC MUST be mutually recognized and trusted in across borders.
259~A list of recognized public authorities that are able to issue certain attestations in a particular Member State MUST be established.
259~A list of recognized private entities that are able to issue certain attestations in a particular Member State SHOULD be established.
2~Widely accepted national procedures and infrastructures SHOULD be utilized wherever possible.
200~A national authority MUST support critical processes in order to increase the trust between the entities involved.
12454~A national pilot solution may implement attestation validation feature but proof of conformance and checking is not a mandatory feature that has to be fulfilled by a national service provider.
20~Any of the proposed stages SHOULD be applicable within a Member State who wishes to apply Article 52 and EFTA EEA Committee decision 68 or 2006.
4692~A Member State MUST formally define an authority that is able to provide a proof of conformance to certain criteria if the Member State wishes to implement Article 52 or if Article 52 is already implemented.
2770~The contracting authority has to specify a subset of the superset of criteria that is relevant to a specific Call for Tender so that any VCD application can perform the mapping later on
8~Any VCD system must have an interface to provide tender specific data and (in particular the relevant criteria subset) in order to perform the mapping.
72~The main subject of the VCD is the final submission of evidence to the contracting authority
58~If there are multiple ways to provide evidence the choice of selecting a specific issuing service is left to the requester.
267~An economic operator MUST be able to act as an issuing body for candidate statements or other evidence that cannot be directly or electronically retrieved by the VCD system.
1~The electronic procurement framework MUST support organizations of any size and industry.
7~The VCD solutions MUST be tested in specific cases by re processing historical tenders.
4~The testing SHOULD be repeated regularly and especially after up dating of software.
55368~A national solution will only be authorized to operate cross border when all tests are passed the testing has to be maintained and monitored by the European VCD Service Provider.
6~Stakeholder MUST be found in order to re process historical tenders.
32~Evidential documents exchanged between parties MUST be semantically harmonized in order to be processed electronically.
1728~National criteria for qualitative selection and exclusion MUST correspond to European criteria which are derived from Article 45 50 and which are partially described in the Eligibility of Tenders.
2~National criteria SHOULD be consistent among themselves and with European criteria.
5~Any VCD instance MUST be specific with regards to a certain economic operator.
5~Any VCD instance SHOULD be specific with regards to a certain tender.
1~A unique VCD identifier needs to be established.
787854~When implementing any tool, system or service WP2 MUST focus on mandatory requirements and evidences mentioned in Articles 45 and 46 first since theses Articles are not tender specific and therewith relevant for nearly all tenders.
128~The mapping between evidences via requirements MUST have set a primary focus on the mandatory requirements and evidences of a VCD.
90~Articles 47 to 50 open a wide range of different criteria which are tender and country specific thus they MUST be added stepwise to the pre VCD mapping tool (which may require a higher level mapping).
100~Any VCD system SHOULD provide the opportunity to the economic operator to produce a complete VCD even if there are several issuing services that are not under control of a national service provider, do not have specific mapping to other documents defined in the pre VCD mapping tool and have to be provided by the economic operator manually.
3~Any VCD system provides the functionality to add additional documents through placeholders.
349528~Interfaces to submit evidence to the VCD system have to be defined along with common semantics in order to allow issuing bodies to further specify evidence with regard to structural data, context specific data and validation values.
62~Develop a format that allows the presentation and displaying of the contents of a VCD package.
36~The pre VCD mapping tool (Stage 1) MUST be filled with instances (defined) by every Member State since Stage 1 is a precondition for any other stage.
12~The VCD simple package (Stage 2) lays the basic ground for the creation of VCDs and the implementation of other services mentioned in stages 3 and 4 so the key concepts of Stage 2 MUST be implemented in each Member States.
1053~Stage 3 (VCD advanced package) and stage 4 (VCD networked package) introduce a set of optional functions that SHOULD be considered by each Member State when implementing a VCD.
109~The stages are logically built upon each other but it MUST be possible to implement certain features of stage 4 if the necessary requirements for this are fulfilled in the lower stages even if maybe not all requirements are fulfilled in stage 3.
174~PEPPOL WP2 is not focussing on the creation of context specific data of attestations or candidate statements in multilingual versions.
12~If context specific data is provided in multilingual versions (for example XBRL, ECRIS etc.) this has a high priority to be included into stage 3 and stage 4.
12~If attestations are described sufficiently in multiple lingual versions they SHOULD be included first to stages 3 and 4.
450~If the prove concentrates on qualitative aspects (for example provide balance sheet or extracts from it in order to proof its economic or financial standing) then the validation value cannot be applied.
81984~Instead such an attestation can be included into VCD stages 3 and 4 if it is sufficiently described through context specific data in multilingual versions (for example XBRL, ECRIS etc.).
21~Classification schemes for goods, services and code lists SHOULD be publicly available and identified in the document objects.
34~The VCD SHOULD support that economic operators from foreign member states may not be treated harder than own member state's economic operators.
30~The possibility of a definition of a minimum validity of a VCD package has to be defined
251016~The provision of attestations that are available in context specific formats including multi lingual versions and their transformation into any target language has to guarantee similar legal status and effect is reached compared to official translation.
92~The contracting authority SHOULD specify a subset of evidences from the superset evidences that are relevant to a specific Call for Tender.
164~The scope of mutual recognition needs to be further clarified with regard to acceptance of foreign procedures and the role and liability of trusted third parties.
362~The scope of mutual recognition needs to be further clarified with regard to the provision of official scans.
46~The scope of mutual recognition needs to be further clarified with regard to the role of candidate statements.
223~It has to be defined which method and concept should be applied if there are missing attestations.
96~It has to be guaranteed whether the directive is correctly implemented in national procurement law with regard to VCD relevant articles 45 52.
144~The legal foundation for exchanging validation values SHOULD be given in the home Member States in order to support mutual recognition across Member States.
1~The legal status and legitimacy of the European Service Provider MUST be defined.
2~The responsibility of the European Service Provider MUST be defined (for example definitions, rule set).
1~The liability of the European Service Provider MUST be defined.
1~The legal regulation applicable for the European Service Provider MUST be defined.
6~A suitable way to establish the relevant regulation for the European Service Provider MUST be defined.
1~The legal status and legitimacy of the National Service Provider MUST be defined.
32~The responsibility and the related processes of the National Service Provider MUST be defined (for example mapping activity, compilation of VCD package).
1~The liability of the National Service Provider (depending on its legal status) MUST be defined.
1~The legal regulation applicable for the National Service Provider MUST be defined.
48~A suitable way to establish the relevant regulations for the National Service Provider MUST be defined (for example special legal regulations concerning VCD service provision).
60~Regulations concerning monetary aspects of the VCD service provision MUST be defined, therefore related legal regulations (for example competition protection act) MUST be considered.
24~Special legal regulations for evidences MUST be considered (for example for extract from the register of conviction).
2~Regulations for handling the non existence of selected evidence requested in a MS MUST be defined and made operational.
2~Relevant regulations of national data protection acts MUST be analysed and considered.
4~Additional requirements for cross border data exchange MUST be analysed and considered.
160~It MUST be clarified which prospects and limitations exists within a Member State to separate a VCD package from the tender itself.
5024~A trust model and trust system MUST be defined from a legal point of view for every process which includes the roles and responsibilities of the entities involved.
24~Electronic signature, with the same legal meaning of handwritten signature, SHOULD be encouraged in cross border scenario.
1232~The regulations concerning the use of electronic documents, the exchange or download of electronic documents (for example mandatory usage of an e signature) MUST be considered (especially regulations from national procurement act and directive 2004 or 18 or EC).
336~A process for document handling compliant with the relevant legal regulations MUST be defined (especially with respect to the data protection acts).
28~It MUST be clarified how the governance model of WP2 fits into the overall governance model of WP8.
2~WP2 stakeholders MUST be authenticated to the VCD system and for the PEPPOL infrastructure.
466~The identity and access management procedures for creating a VCD account SHOULD be harmonized with the registration procedure of the overall infrastructure provided by WP 8.
34~A single sign on SHOULD be implemented in order to allow identity and access management across different systems.
96~A method MUST be found how to allocate identifiers to the participants that use the infrastructure for transportation of VCDs and related services.
1~Every party participating MUST be uniquely identifiable
1~Every party participating SHOULD have a secure and verifiable electronic address.
10~In stage 4 it MUST be possible to discover the verified electronic address for an identified party.
290~It MUST be clarified which are the best access points for economic operators to use the infrastructure for transportation of a VCD package.
23698~It MUST be clarified whether the possibility exist to have access to web clients via the infrastructure in order to have access to specific web services which depend upon functionalities provided by the infrastructure.
4~It MUST be clarified whether tendering platforms enable a separated submission of a VCD and the bid itself.
10~The PEPPOL infrastructure MUST have the capability to submit a VCD to a contracting authority or tendering platform.
5~The PEPPOL infrastructure SHOULD have the capability to submit a bid which contains a VCD.
5~It MUST be possible to guarantee confidentiality for specific documents.
9976~It MUST be possible to apply the validation service provided by WP1 to a VCD in order to enable economic operators to guarantee data integrity and confidentiality of a VCD.
18~It MUST be clarified whether the VCD can use the validation service of WP1 if the transportation infrastructure is not used by an economic operator.
8~Transport mechanisms between party's addresses MUST be reliable.
8~Transport mechanisms between party's addresses MUST be secure.
124~It MUST be assured that business document instances are consistent and correct during transportation, validation or transformation operations.
1~Authentication of origin for business document instances MUST be supported.
63~Time stamping SHOULD be applied in some processes to certify relevant date and time.
25~The electronic procurement process MUST have an audit trailing to ensure transparency for both parties.
12~Torrent search will share the same search bar with the streaming search.
1~Database of torrent sites can be updated via the internet.
260~There will be a tick box to allow the user to choose to include torrent searching in the search.
6~Query will retrieve the number of seed and peers, size of the file, date posted and a link to the webpage itself.
12~If no results are found on a search it will display a message "No results were found for this search."
91~Results will be arranged in size or date or alphabetical order by clicking on the column headers.
50~There will be page button for the user to navigate the results.
8~Streaming search will share the same search bar with the torrent search.
21~Database of video hosting and video linking sites can be updated via the internet.
320~There will be a tick box to allow the user to choose to include video host searching in the search.
320~There will be a tick box to allow the user to choose to include video link searching in the search.
213~Query to video hosting sites will retrieve full video name, length, date posted and a link to the video itself.
12~Query to video link sites will retrieve the show's name, episode name and a link to the webpage itself.
12~If no results are found on a search it will display a message "No results were found for this search."
91~Results will be arranged in length or date or alphabetical order by clicking on the column headers.
50~There will be page button for the user to navigate the results.
5~Query times will take no longer than 5 seconds to any website.
42~Sending the hyperlink to the default browser will take less than 1 second.
5~Loading the program will take less than 10 seconds.
1~Any torrent result with 0 seeds will not be displayed.
10~Sorting results should take less than 0.1 seconds.
1~A results page will display 100 results.
2~Any torrent result with a rating of less than 1 will not be displayed.
68~System shall display the hyperlinks and descriptions for the user to perform the desired functions as specified in the related UIS.
16~The User shall be able to view the hyperlinks and descriptions listed.
48~The User shall be able to choose a function by clicking the hyperlink.
28~The system shall display the desired operational page for the user after clicking the hyperlink.
6~A user with admin privileges shall be able to Add or Create a new user and associate the user with specified role(s) in the system.
2~The system shall display an error message if the new user is found in the system system.
4~The system shall display an error message if the new user is not active in the Active Directory.
2~The system shall display the xxx tab as the default tab.
4~The user shall be able to create or add a new user manually or from a template.
16~The user record shall inherit all specified role(s) settings in the template when the user record is created from the user template
13~The user shall be able to add additional roles manually while creating or adding a new user from a user template.
330~The system shall save the user info to the database with specified roles associated with divisions for the newly created or added user.
195~The system shall perform a search on the system user display name and user name columns in the user tables to find the user and verify the user's existence.
6216~The system shall perform a search in the Active Directory to verify the status of the user, Active or Inactive within the company—when the user attempts to create or add a new user in the system.
80~The system shall generate a standard confirmation message after saving data and warning or caution messages after the cancel or close button is clicked.
8~The user must have the flexibility to click any tab to commence the adding process, although the xxx Tab shall display as the default tab.
152~All required fields as specified in the UIS must be marked with a red asterisk alerting the user to fill the required fields in.
92~The user shall be able to save data after creating or adding a new user or cancel data to abort the process.
44~The system shall clear up data if the user chooses to click the Cancel button in the midst of creating or adding a new user.
32~The system shall direct the user to the xxx Page if the user chooses to click the close button without entering any data.
66~The user must associate at least one role, division, designator code, and lab location at the time of creating or adding a new user.
98~The user must fill in the required fields—User Name and Display Name—in the User Information section at the time of creating or adding a new user.
6956576~The system shall generate a standard error or warning message after the user attempts to save data without associating one of each of the following criteria—xxx—and or or without filling in the required fields in the User Information section.
68~The Project Team must demonstrate mockups of UI changes to project stakeholders early in the development process.
20~The Project Team must permit reasonable adjustment to the user interfaces of new functionality by project stakeholders when project schedule permits those adjustments.
16~The Project Team shall schedule updates to the production environment only on Tuesdays between 7pm and 7am.
332~The Project Team must perform applicable and appropriate testing against new functionality prior to releasing that functionality or build to the production environment.
536~The project Team must allow a reasonable time to conduct User Acceptance Testing (UAT) against the built functionalities prior to deploying the product to the production environment.
6~The Development Team shall define coding standards for the application and follow those standards consistently.
168~The Development Team shall be required to adjust existing source code to follow accepted coding standards only if that source code must be modified.
52~The system shall log errors, warnings, and informational messages to an external log file on the application server.
296~The Development Team shall be required to adjust existing source code to use the external log file only if that source code must be modified to implement another requirement.
17~The system shall log an error message to the external data file when the user is directed to the system error page.
34~The system shall send a notification email to a Client Services email distribution list if the user is directed to the xxx error page.
4~The Development Team shall develop functionalities using the xx language and on the supported dot NET 3 5 Platform.
4~The Development Team shall utilize established open source frameworks instead of proprietary custom components wherever appropriate.
21~The system shall continue to depend upon and use a single SQL Server 2008 database.
80~The Technical Owner or Lead shall provide signoff before any the system build can be deployed to the production environment.
12~The Development Team shall perform weekly integrations of the system and deploy these system updates to the Staging environment.
4~The Development Team shall label every scheduled the system build in the source control system.
1008~The Development Team shall perform scheduled the system builds using code checked out of source control using the label as defined and specified.
456~The Development Team shall develop and then send out release notes via e mail to all Project Team after each the system build deployed to the Staging environment.
162~The Technical Lead shall perform code reviews of every system change before those changes may be committed to source control.
20~The QA or QC Team must perform regression testing against all scheduled builds.
6~RoboHelp version 8 will be used to create the online the system Help hypertext links.
602~the system will display a hypertext link labeled "Help" at the top right corner on each of the user screens to provide assistance to the user.
205~Each of the Help topic pop up windows will contain that same content that is available within the system user's manuals.
622~The system shall provide the capability to open a pop up window displaying information about the specific page along with links to supporting help topics upon selecting each Help link.
472~The system shall display "the system Overview" page located under the Getting Started section of Help as default help topic page that will load upon selecting Help hypertext link.
25992~The system must allow users to easily navigate through each of the help topics by selecting a corresponding hypertext link provided in the left frame of the pop up Help window.
34~The system shall display the company logo in the top, right side of the screen on each of the help pages.
20~The system must exhibit each of the help pages using the same color scheme and background as specified.
40~The system shall provide searching ability to the users to quickly find specific topic material through the online help tool.
110~The system shall provide an index to the users for a more in depth search of topic contents through the online help tool.
258~The system shall provide a Glossary for industry related terms associated with the company and the system to the users through the online help tool.
2~The system shall retain existing HIPAA compliance capabilities.
13~The system shall follow HIPAA compliance capabilities in new functionality introduced to the system.
5~The system shall display all the products that can be configured.
2~The system shall allow user to select the product to configure.
2~The system shall display all the available components of the product to configure
9~The system shall enable user to add one or more component to the configuration.
12~The system shall notify the user about any conflict in the current configuration.
16~The system shall allow user to update the configuration to resolve conflict in the current configuration.
4~The system shall allow user to confirm the completion of current configuration
1~The system shall display detailed information of the selected products.
4~The system shall provide browsing options to see product details.
2~The system shall display detailed product categorization to the user.
4~The system shall enable user to enter the search text on the screen.
16~The system shall enable user to select multiple options on the screen to search.
13~The system shall display all the matching products based on the search
16~The system shall display only 10 matching result on the current screen.
2~The system shall enable user to navigate between the search results.
4~The system shall notify the user when no matching product is found on the search.
4~The system shall allow user to create profile and set his credential
1~The system shall authenticate user credentials to view the profile
1~The system shall allow user to update the profile information
16~The system shall enable user to select multiple options on the screen to search.
13~The system shall display all the matching products based on the search
16~The system shall display only 10 matching result on the current screen.
2~The system shall enable user to navigate between the search results.
4~The system shall notify the user when no matching product is found on the search.
4~The system shall allow user to create profile and set his credential.
1~The system shall authenticate user credentials to view the profile.
1~The system shall allow user to update the profile information.
8~The system shall display both the active and completed order history in the customer profile.
3~The system shall allow user to select the order from the order history.
2~The system shall display the detailed information about the selected order.
30~The system shall display the most frequently searched items by the user in the profile.
12~The system shall allow user to register for newsletters and surveys in the profile.
16~The system shall provide online help FAQ's and customer support and sitemap options for customer support.
3~The system shall allow user to select the support type he wants.
10~The system shall allow user to enter the customer and product information for the support.
8~The system shall display the customer support contact numbers on the screen.
11~The system shall allow user to enter the contact number for support personnel to call.
2~The system shall display the online help upon request.
2~The system shall display the FAQ's upon request.
3~The system shall maintain customer email information as a required part of customer profile.
10~The system shall send an order confirmation to the user through email.
2~The system shall display detailed invoice for current order once it is confirmed.
2~The system shall optionally allow user to print the invoice.
6~The system shall provide shopping cart during online purchase.
6~The system shall allow user to add or remove products in the shopping cart.
49~The system shall display different shipping options provided by shipping department.
4~The system shall enable user to select the shipping method during payment process.
3~The system shall display the shipping charges.
6~The system shall display tentative duration for shipping.
4~The system shall allow user to enter the order information for tracking.
8~The system shall display the current tracking information about the order.
3~The system shall calculate tax for the order
2~The system shall display tax information for the order
2~The system shall display available payment methods for payment.
2~The system shall allow user to select the payment method for order
12~The system shall display the orders that are eligible to change.
7~The system shall allow user to select the order to be changed.
1~The system shall allow user to cancel the order
25~The system shall allow user to change shipping and payment method.
26~The system shall notify the user about any changes made to the order.
8~The system shall display the reviews and ratings of each product when it is selected.
4~The system shall enable the user to enter their reviews and ratings.
2~The system shall display all the available financing options.
6~The system shall allow user to select the financing option.
4~The system shall notify the use about the financing request.
6~The system shall allow user to view detailed sitemap.
2~The system shall display all the available promotions to the user.
1~The system shall allow user to select available promotion.
3~The system shall allow user to confirm the purchase.
2~The system shall enable user to enter the payment information.
10~The system shall provide a uniform look and feel between all the web pages.
5~The system shall provide a digital image for each product in the product catalog.
3~The system shall provide use of icons and toolbars.
1~The system shall provide handicap access.
1~The system shall provide multi language support.
18~The system shall provide storage of all databases on redundant computers with automatic switchover.
12~The system shall provide for replication of databases to off site storage locations.
2~The system shall provide RAID V Disk Stripping on all database storage disks.
26~The system shall provide a contractual agreement with an internet service provider for T3 access with 99.9999% availability.
41~The system shall provide a contractual agreement with an internet service provider who can provide 99.999% availability through their network facilities onto the internet.
6~The product shall be based on web and has to be run from a web server.
640~The product shall take initial load time depending on internet connection strength which also depends on the media from which the product is run
1~The performance shall depend upon hardware components of the client or customer.
3~The system shall use secure sockets in all transactions that include any confidential customer information.
9~The system shall automatically log out all customers after a period of inactivity.
10~The system shall confirm all transactions with the customer's web browser.
5~The system shall not leave any cookies on the customer's computer containing the user's password.
9~The system shall not leave any cookies on the customer's computer containing any of the user's confidential information.
2~The customer's web browser shall never display a customer's password.
26~It shall always be echoed with special characters representing typed characters.
10~The customer's web browser shall never display a customer's credit card number after retrieving from the database.
22~It shall always be shown with just the last 4 digits of the credit card number.
1~The system's back end servers shall never display a customer's password.
1~The customer's password may be reset but never shown
3~The system's back end servers shall only be accessible to authenticated administrators.
1~The system's back end databases shall be encrypted.
5~The source code developed for this system shall be maintained in configuration management tool.
68~The system shall be built using a standard web page development tool that conforms to either IBM's CUA standard or Microsoft's GUI standard
1~There are no memory requirements 
2~The computers must be equipped with web browsers such as Internet explorer.
21~The product must be stored in such a way that allows the client easy access to it
2~Response time for loading the product should take no longer than five minutes
5~A general knowledge of basic computer skills is required to use the product 
36~There are many types of interface as such supported by the Transaction Processing System software system namely User interface and Software interface and Hardware interface
1~The protocol used shall be HTTP.
1~The Port number used will be 80.
6178~The user interface for the software shall be compatible to any browser such as Internet Explorer or Mozilla or Netscape Navigator by which user can access to the system.
55~The user interface shall be implemented using any tool or software package like Java Applet or MS Front Page or EJB etc.
86~Since the application must run over the internet all the hardware shall require to connect internet will be hardware interface for the system.
32~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with the Configurator to identify all the available components to configure the product.
90~The Transaction Processing System shall communicate with the content manager to get the product specifications offerings and promotions.
28~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with billPay system to identify available payment methods validate the payments and process payment.
632~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate to credit management system for handling financing options
8~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with CRM system to provide support.
40~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with Sales system for order management.
3268~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with shipping system for tracking orders and updating of shipping methods.
4~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with external Tax system to calculate tax
12~The Transaction Processing System system shall communicate with export regulation system to validate export regulations
37~The system shall be verisign like software which shall allow the users to complete secured transaction.
9~This usually shall be the third party software system which is widely used for internet transaction.
25~Transaction Processing System should display the disclaimers copyright word mark trademark and product warranties of the Marvel electronics and home entertainment
12~It shall be as per the industry standard.
4~The patient's information such as date of birth and address and telephone number should be entered into computer system
18~If a patient checks out the administrative staff shall delete his Personal Health Number from the system and the just evacuated bed is included in available beds list
42~The system generates reports List of detailed information regarding the patient who ha admitted in the hospital
2~The system is also designed to be user friendly
2~It uses a Graphical User interface (GUI)
3~Staff is responsible for patient's check in or notification of appropriate people
24~Administrators are responsible for all of the scheduling and updating day or night employee shifts
1~The system must be delivered by January 1st 2011
14678~The existing Telecommunication infrastructure is based on IEEE100802.3 standard and the system must conform to this standard using category 5 cables for networking 
1~The system must be user friendly 
4~It is assumed that one hundred IBM compatible computers will be available before the system is installed and tested
8~It is assumed that the Hospital will have enough trained staff to take care of the system
160~The HPIMS shall generate reports on patients about the following information: patient's PHN patient's name ward name bed number and the doctor's name which was assigned
1633~The HPIMS shall generate reports on bed availability about the following information: ward name bed number occupied or unoccupied
556~Each patient shall have the following mandatory information: first name last name phone number personal health number address postal code city country patient identification number
138~The HPIMS shall allow the user to update any of the patient's information as described in SRS
9~The system shall use the MySQL Database which is open source and free
1~The Development environment shall be Windows 
1~The system shall be a Web based application
14~The system requires the patient to identify himself or herself using PHN
2~Any user who uses the system shall have a Logon ID and Password
16~Any modification (insert delete update) for the Database shall be synchronized and done only by the administrator in the ward
176~Front Desk staff shall be able to view all information in HPIMS add new patients to HPIMS but shall not be able to modify any information in it
9~Administrators shall be able to view and modify all information in HPIMS
47~The system shall give responses in 1 second after checking the patient's information
4~The System must support 1000 people at a time
1~The user interface screen shall respond within 5 seconds
2~The systems must conform to the Microsoft Accessibility guidelines
10~The system shall provide the capability to back up the Data
1~The system shall keep a log of all the errors
1~The system shall be available all the time
4~Students are directed to a Main page that has links to the other systems.
66~The Course Registration page will provide course information and allow the user to register for course as well as view his time table
6~The Course time Table page will provide general course information without any need of registration
2~The Student Accounts page will display a student's personal and tuition (monetary) information.
552~The Records page will display information regarding the student's academic progress at UVic and allow interaction with the Records Department at UVic
52~The Employee is directed to a page that allows them to process Student Record related requests
18~We assume that everyone that uses the system has access to the internet at speeds of 56k or above
3840~The system is depended upon by many users therefore it should be able to deal with thousands of users logging onto the system at any one time
42~The system must allow students to request official transcripts from WebView.
24~All requests will be sent and managed by the university records database
47~The system conatins the capacities of WebView WebReg WebTT and PinChg whole System will be consolidated into one central system while maintaining the capacity of each system
2~System is specifically intended for Records Employee.
10~It will have a separate log in page where Records Employee's can log in with their Netlink id and password.
27~This connects them with the transcript database, From there they will be able to fulfil transcript requests
1~The system will display account outstanding balances.
73~An account balance will be placed on the interface indicating the amount owned until payment is fulfilled.
380~There will also be another function within the system that will provide a detailed breakdown of all fees charged by the University
2~The system checks if the entered student number and password are valid
3~The system authorizes the student to access their record information if they entered valid student number and password
3~System returns the user to the log in page if the student number or password is invalid
10~System provides user with options to access different records and do different capacities with the system if the student number and password are correct
191~The system will have capacity of producing a more professionally looking unofficial transcript that can be obtained and used when applying for jobs (mostly for coop students)
74~The new system is a combination of old systems namely WebReg WebView WebTT and PinChg which required separate log in accounts.
3060~The new system should function such that when (student) signs into it it provides them with all the information combined for the old systems without having to re log in.
154~The new system will also allow records employees to log into the system view and process transcript requests
60~The new system will provide a report that clearly shows what courses the student have completed and what courses they still need to take.
144~This capacity will be important in saving students time from looking at the whole timetable of their course
9~The new system will be accessible in any computer that is connected to the internet
118~The new system will have an interface that is very easy to use and does not require training to use.
20~It should combine some of the features of the old system so that users (students) who are familiar with the old system will not have trouble adjusting to the new system
35~The new system should also have an interface that can be useful to records employees for them to easily process transcript requests.
724~Some of the old records system features will be included in the new system to help records employees to adjust easily to the new system
187~The new system should have a tool to help students produce their timetable instead of them spending much time looking at the timetable and manually planning it
32~This capacity does not replace the old system of planning the timetable manually but it is an additional feature that can be used
346~In the event of a system crash during a transaction the current transaction will either completed or not completed, This will be handled by an already existing database
4~The system must effectively recover from a crash within five seconds.
51~For the system to effectively recover it must be able to restart a sessions with the user within the time limit
6~The system must be able to run without interruption and able to handle thousands of concurrent requests
224~It must be able to effectively recover from crashes and other problems as it is handling sensitive data.
32~It should be designed in such a way that it can run on distributed systems
127~When brought up in the interview the response from UVic web systems was Basically we want the system to handle errors gracefully like crashes
632~The developed system will have to deal with large quantities of data and a large number of users accessing the data at once
60~The required system should be available on any system or workstation with a minimum requirement of 56k internet access
416~The new system should be able to work with the existing system used by the records system, This should allow the records office to receive transcript requests
70~The user interface will have a single access portal where the user can sign in and have access to the entire system
48~If a student signs in they are taken to the Student Main Page If a Records employee signs in they are taken to a Records Main Page
18~The Records main page would allow a records employee to process Official Transcript orders
1968~The Student main page would have links or tabs to the various other systems like Course Registration Course Time tables Student Accounts Transcripts and Records
208~The Course Registration Page would show the courses the user is currently registered in and allow the user to register for next term courses if they are eligible
241~When a user chooses the Register for Courses option they are taken to a page that has a list of courses offered that semester and an empty time table
2~When user selects a course the course information like class size current enrollment information (for example seats Availibility) Instructor is displayed in text form
184~The Course Time Tables page basically displays information (timings instructor class size pre requisites) of all the courses offered at UVic
10~The Student Account page contains information like a student's address tuition account information Netlink account details and PinChg.
6~A student will be able to view and edit information which includes changing passwords
2277~The Transcripts and Records page will contain a student's unofficial transcripts including and an ability to display all previously taken courses and the corresponding grades.
12~It will also display a student's standing point grade average
18~This page will also allow a student to order official transcripts
11~The system will have 3 terminals per store with each one having a touch screen monitor keyboard credit card scanner and a cash register
10~The system will have a 45 minute battery backup at each terminal
5~The system will have a 2 hour battery backup at the server at headquarters
30~The system will interact with the banking network for the purpose of processing payments
12~The systems data needs will be supported by a connection to the headquarters server
4~The System will consist of Four (4) modules Customer Service Customer Portal Website Fleet Management Reports & Analytics
288~The System will contain a Customer Service module that will allow Store and Corporate employees to provide information to customers
1456~The System will contain a Customer Service module that will allow Store and Corporate employees' access to the system for the purpose of Creating Rental Agreements
64~The System will contain a Customer Service module that will allow Store and Corporate employees to collect payments
6228~The System will contain a Customer Portal Website that will provide information to the public and customers about the company and operations of the company
5288~This information will include Locations Hours of operation contact information available rental vehicles rental packages price estimate and any other information deemed necessary by the company.
150~The customer portal website will provide the customer with the closest location to their zip code and up to the next five (5) closest locations in addition to hours of operations contact info and directions
10~The System will generate an inventory capacity report for the desired time and location
20~The System will allow for new vehicles to be added to the inventory of the company
5~The Fleet management module will allow the system to track vehicle maintenance.
12~Maintenance will be tracked through mileage and or time as decided by the company
126~The System will contain a Report and Analytics Module that will serve the purpose of generating reports on the operations of the company
205~The System will contain a Report and Analytics Module that will be capable of generating reports for items such as sales maintenance vehicle history operations rentals and insurance
62~The System will contain a Report and Analytics Module that will be capable of generating reports for a desired time and location
4~The system will batch the daily operations to headquarters at the end of each business day
352~The system will generate a backup of all data weekly for the purpose of data loss prevention at the headquarters
22~The system will allow the customer to input the desired date location and package options to determine vehicle availability
235~The system will display only vehicles that are currently available to rent to the customer during the rental process
3~The system will create a customer account if the customer is not in the system
1~The customer account will require name address date of birth driver's License and credit card number
72~The system will require a credit card be on file but will allow customer to use different forms of payment at time of rental
104~The system will provide a report of the vehicles that are scheduled to be rented out and returned for the specified day
24~The system will allow for a block reservation of more than one (1) car at a time
26~at time of pickup the system will allow the employee to bring up the specified reservation and to print out a rental agreement
88~The system will require the employee to verify the information on the Rental Agreement and to then input into the system a notice that the agreement has been gone over.
8~This will ensure that the employee has in fact gone over the agreement and everything is in place.
4~The system will ask if the employee has obtained the customer Signature on the rental agreement.
10~Customer signature is required on the rental agreement by company policy.
192~The system will allow for preliminary payment to be collected at time of pickup if company policies states that payment is to be collected at time of pickup.
26~The customer will liable for a no show charge if they fail to pick up the vehicle at the specified time.
20~The system will require that the charge be process before the reservation can be closed out in the case of a no show
136~The customer will have twenty four (24) hours before pickup time to call and cancel the reservation before the system requires the no show charge
85~At time of return of rental vehicle the system will allow the employee to print out a Vehicle inspection form.
81~This form is to be filled out at the vehicle and then input back into the system.
2009~The vehicle inspection form will require information including model license number vin number damage to the vehicle level of fuel in the tank mileage and a section for other issues.
2424~The system will allow for a vehicle to be returned to a different location than the original rental location for the charge of a fee to be determined by the company
78~The system will identify and additional charges that need to be charged for any damage or issue to the rental vehicle
15~For company accounts the system will allow for the invoice (bill) to be sent to the company
48~Company billing will be required to be set up in advance with the company to prevent fraud
98~After the vehicle inspection is done then the system will print off a final invoice for the costumer to sign
40~This invoice will contain the total amount charged by the rental company including primary rental and additional charges.
7~Physical copy will be saved as proof of transaction.
2~The system will provide employees with a login
2~The system will provide employees with a logout
5~The system will provide employees with the option to reset their login password
7~The system will provide employees with the option to change their login password
6~The system will allow employees with quick an efficient access to customer information.
16~The system will provide employees with a screen view of all customer pickups for a specified day
18~The system will provide employees with a screen view of an existing reservation of a customer
290~The system will provide customers to login on the web portal and view existing reservation in the system
42~The system will allow employees to check vehicle availability from inventory for customers
18~The system will allow employees to get specific vehicle information for customers
38~The local system should be capable of running at minimum 1000 processes per minute (PPM)
28~The Headquarter (HQ) system should be able to process and allocate information to designated terminal within a 10 second refresh rate
4998~The system response time should be no longer than 1 second in order to keep up with the actions given by the User
2989~As the company begins to acquire more customers popularity the system must be able to scale in speed size and versatility in order to accommodate the rising needs of the customer basis.
201~The system will need to function on major internet operating software including Internet explorer Firefox Chrome Safari Opera and Android
8~The system will be constrained operating software of the host computer which is windows
4~The user should have a valid user id and password
1~Web site contains login window for each user
4~User should provide a valid user id and password to access the web site
2~The user (pedestrians vehicle owners traffic police) should provide a valid information.
1~Web site contains Registration window for each users
2~User should provide a valid details to create account in the web site
50~The user (vehicle owners pedestrains) should have to provide valid information to traffic police through admin
2~Web site contains Compliant issued dialog box for every user
20~The user (pedstrains vehicle owners) can give compliant any time to traffic police
2~Web site contains Compliant issued dialog box for every user
237~Admin can manage all users and maintain their data securely He can update the details and day to day updating can be done by admin
19~System can give the suggestions to the users during their discussion in discussion forum.
35~For participating in discussion forum he or she has to be registered.
176~Smart Traffic Management plays a important role in maintaining data of road Traffic of a region which is helpful to users.
10~User can ask any questions with the system and server during their chat
6~With the information provided by administrator user can directly contact with system or he can contact during their chat.
3~Smart Traffic Management System can help by creating awareness
2~User can enter into his account only by login
1~User can exit from his account
2~Administrator can maintain all backup data
1~System can participate in chat with user and SERVER
11~Admin has to provide the Traffic information to the user
2~System can respond to the queries asked by user
115~Day to day updating in improvements of operations can be provided by admin and they can be send to registered users every day
2~System can view the queries which are asked by user
5~User can view the response to their queries which are sent by system
2~User can view the updating provided by admin
2~System can withstand even though many customers request the desired service.
28~By incorporating a robust and proven DB2 UDB into the system reliable performance and integrity of data is ensured
2~There must be a power backup for server system
6~Every day the data should be backup even when the operation of a user is not successful
4~Sensitive data is protected from unwanted access by user's appropriate technology and implementing strict user access criteria
1~Facility of unique user number and Password in such a way that unauthorized user cannot log in
2~Operational rights for each user or terminal can be defined
2~The system shall refresh the display every 60 seconds.
61~The application shall match the color of the schema set forth by Department of Homeland Security
2~If projected the data must be readable.
42~On a 10x10 projection screen 90% of viewers must be able to read Event or Activity data from a viewing distance of 30
1~The product shall be available during normal business hours.
78~As long as the user has access to the client PC the system will be available 99% of the time during the first six months of operation.
2~If projected the data must be understandable.
44~On a 10x10 projection screen 90% of viewers must be able to determine that Events or Activities are occuring in current time from a viewing distance of 100
2~The product shall ensure that it can only be accessed by authorized users.
25~The product will be able to distinguish between authorized and unauthorized users in all access attempts
26~The product shall be intuitive and self explanatory, 90% of new users shall be able to start the display of Events or Activities within 90 minutes of using the product.
84~The product shall respond fast to keep up to date data in the display.
60~The system shall have a MDI form that allows for the viewing of the graph and the data table.
4~The system shall display Events in a vertical table by time.
4~The system shall display the Events in a graph by time.
288~All business rules specified in the Disputes System shall be in compliance to the guidelines of Regulation E and Regulation Z.
7~The Disputes application must maintain a detailed history of every action that a user takes on a dispute case.
20~This ensures a complete audit trail if questions arise later on with regard to a particular dispute case.
6~All actions that modify an existing dispute case must be recorded in the case history.
10~The Disputes System must be accessible by both internal and external users.
96~The Disputes System must prevent users from accessing any dispute cases that do not belong to their cardholder base.
92~The Disputes System will facilitate direct data entry of a dispute case via a user interface that supports real time responses to the users.
54~The Disputes System must provide different levels of access with regard to disputes case initiation and follow up actions.
6~The Disputes System shall provide view access capability for authorized users of the application.
12~The Disputes System shall provide update access capability for authorized users of the application.
88~The Disputes System must allow the users to select disputable transactions (based on the age of the transaction) from a user interface and initiate a dispute (ticket retrieval request or chargeback notification) on the selected transaction.
432~The Disputes System must provide the user the ability to initiate a single dispute case on multiple transactions that belong to a single merchant.
6~The Disputes System will provide the user the ability to create or initiate a ticket retrieval request.
4~As part of ticket retrieval creation process the system must prompt the user to enter all the required information to create the ticket retrieval request.
10~The ticket retrieval request is a document that is sent to merchant inquiring the validity of a transaction.
32~The Disputes System must allow the user to create three unique types of ticket retrieval requests.
48~The three types of ticket retrieval requests are (1) Request for original receipt (2) Request for a copy of the receipt or (3) Request for a portfolio.
3087~A portfolio consists of documentation that would provide proof of a purchase such as the documentation that is received from a car rental agency that is more than a sales receipt.
16~The Disputes System must prevent external users from requesting original receipts.
2~Requests for original receipts are restricted to internal users.
112037~The Disputes System must provide a confirmation to the user upon the creation of ticket retrieval request that contains the following information the dispute case number the type of retrieval requested (copy original or portfolio) and the date that the merchant response is due.
14~The Disputes System shall allow the user to create or initiate a chargeback request.
4~The system must prompt the user to enter the required information to initiate a chargeback request.
802~The chargeback request results in a printed chargeback notification that is sent to merchant indicating that their account will be charged back if no proof is provided that the disputed transaction is valid.
18~The Disputes System must provide a confirmation to the user upon the creation of a chargeback request.
248929~The confirmation must contain the following information the dispute case number the type of chargeback requested (pending or immediate) and the date that the merchant response is due.
4~The Disputes System shall prevent the creation of duplicate dispute requests 100% of the time.
6~The Disputes System shall accurately provide a list of possible reason codes for a given transaction.
15184~The list of possible reason codes must be derived based on the type of transaction and the industry that the merchant belongs to according to the business rules defined for the Disputes System.
48~The Disputes System must provide the ability to view existing dispute cases.
2~The Disputes System must provide Search functionality.
4~The search method must include the ability to search by (1) the dispute case number (2) the merchant account number (3) the cardmember account number and (4) the issuer number.
174720~In addition to the above criteria the search functionality must further allow the user to limit the results of the search by a date range the type of dispute (ticket retrieval request or chargeback notification) the case status (open closed or all) and the dispute reason code.
21~A list of all disputes cases that meet the entered search criteria must be provided to the user.
204~The list of cases must differentiate the type and or status of the case by color coding the line item in the list.
39~For example all open cases will be yellow and all closed cases will be gray.
46~The Disputes System shall provide the users the ability to view the history of all activities that have occurred on the dispute case.
380~The Dispute System shall provide the users with the ability to follow up on a dispute case via follow up actions.
70~The list of available follow up actions for a given dispute case must be filtered by the status of the case and the access level of the user.
262~The Disputes System shall record the name of the user and the date for any activity that creates or modifies the disputes case in the system.
481~A detailed history of the actions taken on the case including the date and the user that performed the action must be maintained for auditing purposes.
511~For any systematic (non user initiated) action that occurs on a case such as the disputes aging process a case activity will be generated.
4~Upon the next logon the user that initiated the dispute case must be notified that a systematic action has occurred on the dispute case.
104~All letter requests must be formatted according to guidelines specified by the Print Letter Utility system.
138~Any disputes cases that have been closed for over 6 months must be purged from the online disputes database.
1~The product must support Internet Explorer 5.5 and above.
1~The product must support Mozilla Firefox 1.0 and above.
4~The product shall interface with the Choice Parts System, This provides the feed of recycled parts data.
14~The product shall run on the existing hardware for all environments.
1~The product shall adhere to the corporate Architecture guidelines
3~The product shall comply with corporate User Interface Guidelines
1~The product shall comply with corporate color scheme
1~The appearance of the product shall appear professional
12~The software product is expected to run on Windows or Linux platforms.
8~The product shall be easy to use by Adjusters and Collision Estimators.
21~95% of Adjusters and Collision Estimators shall find the product easy to use.
1~The product shall increase productivity of Collision Estimators.
8~80% of the Collision Estimators shall agree their productivity has increase within 1 month of using the product.
2~Users shall feel satisfied using the product.
2~85% of all users will be satisfied with the product.
7~The product shall be easy to learn by Adjusters and Collision Estimators.
16~The product shall be learned with two days onsite training
1~The user shall easily locate instructions while using the product.
1~User help can be found within 90% of the system.
2~The search for recycled parts shall take no longer than 15 seconds.
7~The search results shall be returned in under 15 seconds.
2~The search for the preferred repair facility shall take no longer than 8 seconds.
3~The preferred repair facility is returned within 8 seconds
2~The recycled parts audit report shall be returned to the user within 10 seconds.
1~The audit report shall be returned within 10 seconds.
3~The preferred repair facility ratings shall be saved within 5 seconds.
2~The save shall occur within 5 seconds.
1~The product shall adhere to the corporate online availability schedule.
4~The application is brought down only within 98% of the scheduled outages per the availability schedule.
1~The product shall achieve a 98% uptime.
13~The product shall not fail more than 2% of the available online time.
6~The product shall be able to handle up to 1500 simultaneous users.
6~The system shall perform with 1500 users as a time.
4~The average number of recycled parts records per day shall be 50000.
8~The product shall be able to handle 10 000 concurrent users within 2 years of the initial launch.
23~For estimators the product shall be able to be operated in a repair facility during dirty and noisy conditions.
1~The product shall interface with the ChoiceParts system once per day at approximately 1 AM.
1~The maintenance of the product will fall within the established corporate maintenance windows.
1~The product shall be supported using the corporate support center.
2~Product installations and upgrades shall be handled by the middleware technology team within established launch time frames.
9~Only adjusters can request recycled parts audit reports.
1~No users without an adjuster role shall request recycled parts audits.
2~Only adjusters with a supervisor role can update preferred repair facility ratings.
1~Users without the supervisor role cannot access the repair facility ratings.
3~Only collision estimators shall search for recycled parts.
5~Users without the collision estimator role shall not have access to the search for recycled parts.
4~Only valid data shall be entered into the system.
6~No invalid data shall be entered into the system.
8~One insurance company shall not be able to view another insurance companys claim data.
1~The product shall free of computer viruses.
3~The system shall prevent malicious attacks including denial of service.
2~The product must comply with Sarbanes Oxley.
22~The product shall comply with the estimatics laws relating to recycled parts usage.
11~The product shall comply with insurance regulations regarding claims processing.
10~The user shall search for the preferred repair facility using vehicle vehicle location and radius in miles
2~The vehicle data shall include vehicle year make and model
1~The vehicle location shall include street address city state and zipcode
5~The system shall resolve the zipcode for the street address city and state if zipcode is unknown.
20~The search radius shall be between 1 and 30 miles
9~The system shall locate the preferred repair facility with the highest ratings for the input criteria
2~The adjuster shall enter the preferred repair facility on the estimate assignment.
12~The adjuster shall be able to override the preferred repair facitlity on the estimate assignment.
2~The preferred repair facility shall be returned to the user.
6~The system shall return a list of repair facilities within the radius if the preferred repair facility cannot be determined.
9~The estimator shall search for available recycled parts using damaged vehicle parts information.
4~The estimator shall search for available recycled parts using a list of preferred parts suppliers.
10~The system shall search for available recycled parts for the supplied vehicle parts and suppliers.
20~The estimator shall search by zipcode with a radius of 30 miles if no parts are found for the preferred parts suppliers
21~The system shall retain the available recycled parts and suppliers returned from the search.
3~The available recycled parts information and their suppliers shall be returned to the user.
2~The estimator shall apply selected recycled parts to the collision estimate.
2~The estimator shall not apply recycled parts to the collision estimate if no available parts are returned.
1~The adjuster shall review the collision estimate.
2~The adjuster shall request a recycled parts audit of the collision estimate.
6~The recycled parts search results provided to the estimator shall be retrieved by the system.
5~The system shall generate an audit report based on the available recycled parts and the collision estimate.
14~The audit report shall include the total number of recycled parts used in the estimate.
6~The audit report shall include the number of available recycled parts from the original search results.
7~The audit report shall include the percentage of available recycled parts used in the estimate 
4~The audit report shall include the total score of the audit which sums the indivual line items.
1~The audit report shall be displayed to the user.
5~The audit report shall be available to other adjusters at later points in time.
3~The user shall select to view the preferred repair facility ratings.
5~The current repair facility ratings shall be displayed to the user.
3~The system will display a blank set of ratings if there are not ratings yet defined.
3~The user shall enter new ratings based on the audit report
4~The ratings shall be from a scale of 1 10
15~The ratings shall include categories for attempted use of recycled parts and actual use of recycled parts
2~The user shall select to save the preferred repair facility ratings.
3~The preferred repair facility ratings shall be saved by the system.
2204~The product must work with most database management systems (DBMS) on the market whether the DBMS is colocated with the product on the same machine or is located on a different machine on the computer network.
18~The product will function alongside server software on any operating system where the Java runtime can be installed.
3~The product will require collaboration with a database management system (DBMS).
192~The DBMS may be located on the same machine as the product or on a separate machine residing on the same computer network.
1~The product must make use of web or application server technology.
1~Open source examples include Apache web server Tomcat and the JBoss application server.
7~A database management system such as Oracle DB2 MySql or HSQL will need to be integrated with the product.
79~The products Look and Feel shall be able to incorporate aspects of the customers organization such as logo branding and identity
4~The product shall have a conservative and professional appearance.
2~The product shall make the users want to use it.
127~80% of the users surveyed report they are regularly using the product after the first 2 weeks post launch.
2~The product shall be easy to use.
7~90% of users will be able to successfully reserve a conference room within 5 minutes of product use.
6~The product shall give users feedback when necessary.
2~80% of the users surveyed report that the product accurately confirms their actions.
11~The product shall allow the user to select a chosen language from one of the target market countries.
1~The product shall allow for customization of start page and views preferences.
5~An employee will be able to successfully use the product within a few minutes.
207~After informally navigating the product for less than 15 minutes users shall be able to successfully setup meetings and reserve conference rooms.
6~The product shall use a standard navigation menu familiar to most web users.
2~The product shall allow for intuitive searching of available conference rooms.
3~The product shall conform to the Americans with Disabilities Act.
6~The response shall be fast enough to avoid interrupting the users flow of thought.
1~90% of tasks shall complete within 5 seconds.
1~98% of tasks shall complete within 8 seconds.
1~Aside from server failure the software product shall achieve 99.99% up time.
201~The product shall create an exception log of problems encountered within the product for transmission to our company for analysis and resolution.
4~The product shall be capable of handling up to 1 000 concurrent requests, This number will increase to 2 000 by Release 2.
26~The concurrency capacity must be able to handle peak scheduling times such as early morning and late afternoon hours.
34~The product shall be able to process 10 000 transactions per hour within two years of its launch, This number will increase to 20 000 by Release 2.
20~The product shall be expected to operate for at least 5 years for each customer installation.
1~The product shall be used in office environments.
6~The product must be able to interface with any HTML browser.
18~The product shall transmit data between the user and the product without problems.
99~The product shall display HTML properly in 80% of all HTML browsers tested (minimum is to test 8 browsers).
1~The product must be able to interface with various database management systems.
6~The product shall communicate successfully with the database management system on 100% of all transactions.
1~The product must be able to interface with various email servers.
2~The product shall be able to send email.
18~The product shall be available for distribution via the Internet as a binary or ZIP file.
2~The product shall be available for distribution as a packaged CD.
6~The product will be available for licensing as a one server two five servers or five or more servers license.
7~A new user must be able to be added to the system within 10 minutes.
11~90% of new users are able to log into the system within 10 minutes.
3~The product must be designed using Design Patterns and coding best practices.
363~90% of maintenance software developers are able to integrate new functionality into the product with 2 working days.
11~The product must be highly configurable for use with various database management systems for the end users.
33~80% of end users are able to integrate new database management systems with the product without changing the products software code.
3~Maintenance releases will be offered to customers once a year.
45~The releases shall take no longer than 5 minutes for 80% of the customer base to install.
10~Every registered user will have access to the products support site via the Internet.
14~70% of registered users shall find a solution to their problem within 5 minutes of using the support site.
42~The customer shall be able to easily integrate new building maps with the product throughout the products lifecycle.
20~Integration of new maps with the product shall be possible with little to no support from product support staff.
4~The product shall be translated into foreign languages other than the target market countries languages in future releases.
184~For each emerging target market it shall take no more than 5 days to configure the product for that markets language.
12~The product is expected to integrate with multiple database management systems.
49~The product will operate with Oracle SQL Server DB2 MySQL HSQL and MS Access.
14~The product shall be able to be installed in any operating environment within 2 days.
53~The product shall ensure that only company employees or external users with company approved user IDs may have product access.
24~100% of all logons shall be by either company employees or external users with company approved user IDs.
5~Only managers are able to perform search queries for reservations by user.
23~100% of all search queries for reservations by user shall be from logons of only management logons.
6~The product shall ensure that the databases data corresponds to the data entered by the user.
9~Each conference room reservation in the system will contain the same information as was entered by the user.
2~The product shall prevent the input of malicious data.
6256~The product and or adjacent hardware or software systems data shall remain 100% uncorrupted each time malicious data is input into the product.
656~The product and or dependent databases or filesystems shall remain operational as a result of the input of malicious data.
3604~The product and or dependent databases or filesystems shall not crash 100% of the time that malicious data is input into the product.
32~The product shall have the ability to receive automatic software updates as new threats emerge.
14~100% of customers will be able to receive automatic software updates transmitted to the installed product.
1~The language of the product shall accommodate all of the target market countries.
4~90% of survey respondents from each target market country will find that the language of the product is acceptable.
27~The product shall be able to display calendar dates and times according to the users locale.
8~90% of survey respondents from each target market country will find that the date and time formatting of the product is correct.
33~The product must be developed with the J2SE or J2EE programming language libraries
3~The product shall record meeting entries.
8~The product will notify employees of meeting invitations.
44~The product shall have the ability to send meeting reminders to employees.
26~The product shall assign the organizers contact information to each meeting they create.
3~The product will record meeting acknowledgements.
1~The product shall store new conference rooms.
2~The product shall update existing conference rooms.
2~The product will be able to delete conference rooms.
3~The product shall be able to store new room equipment.
2~The product will update existing room equipment.
2~The product shall be able to delete room equipment.
8~The product shall allow an organizer to invite other employees to meetings.
22~Each time a conference room is reserved the conference room schedule shall be updated to reflect the time and date of the reservation.
5~The product shall record the transportation status of equipment reserved.
24~The product shall display a map of the company building showing conference room locations.
3~The product shall record updated meeting agendas.
24~The product shall send a meeting confirmation to the meeting organizer.
5~The product shall display room equipment according to search parameters.
5~The product shall display conference rooms according to search parameters.
3~The product shall record different meeting types.
8~The product shall record all the equipment that has been reserved.
16~The product shall notify building personnel of equipment transport requests.
347~The product will allow priviledged users to view meeting schedules in multiple reporting views.
92~The product shall be able to send meeting notifications via different kinds of end user specified methods.
3~The product shall have a customizable Look and Feel.
1~The product shall have an intuitive user interface.
2~The product will display an available status for unreserved conference rooms.
24~Recreation of Inventory Quantity Adjustment for the period of previous 30 days shall take no more than 30min.
154~The System shall allow for a minimum of 6 users to work at the same time.
4~The System shall utilize currently owned computer equipment.
4~The System shall be able to automatically backup business data and restore them on demand.
2~The System shall maintain consistent security.
8~Any changes in user passwords and or permissions should take affect in all parts of the System.
12~The System shall granularly control access rights to all major subsystems.
44~It should be possible to assign access rights to all subsystems independently.
8~The System shall meet all applicable accounting standards.
10~The final version of the System must successfully pass independent audit performed by a certified auditor.
16~The System shall not require additional third party licenses resulting in royalty fees.
52~The System shall allow generation of Inventory Quantity Adjustment documents on demand.
152~The System shall allow on demand generation of all Inventory Quantity Adjustment documents since certain point of time.
10~The IQA subsystem shall take into account current inventory status and adjust inventory of substitutionary ingredients accordingly.
22~The System shall allow entering storing and modifying product formulas.
2~Product formulas shall allow use of semi products which have own formulas.
4~Product formula ingredients shall allow defining substitutionary ingredients.
4~Product formula substitutionary ingredients shall be entered automatically by the PFE subsystem.
4~Formula substitutionary ingredients shall be kept in persisted order
178~Product shall allow entering storing and modifying product menus used by POS terminals.
470~PME Subsystem shall allow building product menus based on the list of products kept in the accounting system.
102~PME Subsystem shall allow keeping submenus within menus and products within submenus in a managed and persisted order.
22~PME Subsystem shall allow for a product to exist in more than one submenu
42~The RMS System shall have Windows XP look and feel and use GUI futures making its use intuitive.
80~The System shall generate Inventory Quantity Adjustment document based on product daily sales data and product formulas.
8~The System shall generate Inventory Quantity Adjustment document automatically when daily Product Sales data is available.
68~Administrator shall be able to activate a pre paid card via the Administration section in under 5 seconds.
292~Customer shall be able to check the status of their prepaid card by entering in the PIN number in under 5 seconds.
12~System shall let customers register on the website as a pay as you go user in under 5 minutes.
48~System shall let customers register on the website as a unlimited movie subscriber user in under 10 minutes.
1482~System shall let existing customers log into the website with their email address and password in under 5 seconds.
5~System shall let customers cancel their account process shall take no longer than 2 minutes.
285~Database will mark the account as inactive and user will not be able to log into the website.
3~System shall let administrator de activate a customer account in under 1 minute, Customer will no longer be able to access the website.
38~System shall let administrator add or remove movies on the website in under 5 minutes.
1~Entered movie information will be stored in the database and will now be available on the website.
62~System shall let the administrator add or remove categories on the website in under 5 minutes.
4~System shall let Izogn Manager access sales and usage statistics in under 2 minutes.
32~System shall let administrators generate unique pre paid pins in under 2 minutes and generate an Excel file with the generated PINs.
1~The website shall be attractive to all audiences.
10~The website shall appear to be fun and the colors should be bright and vibrant.
1~The website should have an African feel but should not alienate non Africans.
195~The website should use animation on pages which are describing the services to grab the users attention and encourage them to sign up.
2~The website design should be modern clean and concise.
20~The product should be able to be used by 90% of novice users on the Internet.
45~Users should only have to navigate through a maximum of 4 pages to create an account with the website.
507~Users should be able to access their streaming movies in under 2 clicks after logging into the website.
20~An anonymous survey will show that 70% of customers are comfortable purchasing streaming movies after 2 weeks using the website.
2575~An anonymous survey will show that 95% of customers are comfortable using and purchasing pre paid cards after a month of using the system.
5~The product shall retain the customers buying preferences and information.
252~The product shall be easy for customers with novice skills on the Internet to purchase and watch streaming movies.
36~Customers should be able to purchase and watch a pre determined movie in under 3 minutes.
256~The product shall use symbols and words that are naturally understandable by users familiar with websites
4~The website will use standard Internet conventions when interacting with the user.
20~Any interface between a user and the automated system shall have a maximum response time of 5 seconds unless noted by an exception below.
262~When purchasing a streaming movie or pre paid card via credit card the processing time should have a maximum response time of 15 seconds.
48~When streaming a movie the buffering time should take no longer than 10 seconds (plus any latency on the users connection.)
5~While streaming a movie buffering should only occur if there is latency in the users connection.
6~All credit card information will be secured on the server and only accessible by authorized Izogn administrators.
1~Information will be encrypted in the database.
6~The website shall be available for use 24 hours per day 365 days per year.
1~The website shall achieve 99.5% up time.
3~All movies shall be streamed on demand at any time of the day.
6~The website shall continue to operate if the streaming server goes down.
3~The website shall continue to operate if the payment gateway goes down.
4~The streaming server will support 50 simultaneous streaming connections.
162~The streaming server will support a maximum of 700 movies new servers can be added to support more movies.
2~The server will support a maximum of 1 000 simultaneous users.
2~The website shall be capable of supporting 100 000 customers.
48~The product shall be expected to operate within the maximum maintenance budget for a minimum of 2 years.
14~All aspects of the website shall be accessed by a web browser over the Internet.
30~The same hardware supporting the current website will be used to support the new system.
2~We must be able to interface with the following browsers IE 5.X 6.0 Netscape 6.x 7.x 8.x and Firefox 1.0.
9~Website must interface with the CyberSource API to process credit card transactions.
2~Website must be fully operational with MSN TV2.
1~Movies shall be encoded and streamed via Windows Media Player 9.0.
6~Movies shall be encoded for 56k and 256k streams.
2~Promotional updates to the website should take a day to update.
14~Izogn Administrator must be able to update the category listings on the website within 2 minutes.
14~Izogn Administrator must be able to add new products to the website within 2 minutes.
10~The system will provide a 24 hour 800 toll free number for support to its customers.
10~The website will provide a help section with answers and solutions to common problems.
12~Velkat staff will be available for phone support between 7am 7pm M F to provide technical support to the Izogn administrators.
24~The product shall be able to be installed in the specified environment within 1 working day.
4~Only registered customers can purchase streaming movies.
4~A customer can only stream a movie if they purchased it and are within the 2 day viewing period.
4~Only authorized personnel can access customer records in the database.
1~Only administrators can activate a pre paid card.
2~Only authorized personnel can access sales information.
86~The website shall prevent its data from being corrupted when incorrect data is entered in.
4~The website shall protect itself from intentional abuse and notify the administrator at all occurrences.
12~Data integrity scripts will be run on a weekly basis to verify the integrity of the database.
190~The website shall make its user aware of its information practices before collection data from them via a Privacy Policy accessible on all pages of the website.
5~The system shall notify customers of changes to its information policy.
16~The system shall reveal private information only in compliance with the organizations information policy.
6~All customer information will be stored on a secure database accessible only to authorized personnel.
7~All credit card information will be encrypted in the database.
2~The streaming server will have anti virus software to prevent infection of malicious viruses.
2~The website should cater to all tribes in Nigeria.
1~The website shall not be offensive to religious or ethnic groups.
1~The website should appeal to all Africans not only Nigerians.
5~The website should use Flash to provide animation on the home page.
211~IzognMovies shall meet the licensing requirements set forth by the appropriate organizations in order to stream African movies.
2~The website will comply with W3C standards.
2~The PHP code will comply with PEAR standards.
6~The website will allow customers to search for movies by title actor or director.
12~viewing a movie details the website will display the movies description actor and director entered in by the administrator.
21~Website shall request and authorize credit card payment before allowing a user to stream a movie.
30~shall be able to stream purchased movie via Windows Media Player for up to 2 days aftere purchase date.
119~Website shall allow customers to browse movies by categories entered in by izogn administrator.
33~Website shall allow customers to view reviews of selected movies by other customers.
13~Website shall allow customers to add their own movie review for a selected movie.
16~Website shall allow the Izogn administrator to approve a review posted by a customer.
20~System will allow customers to pay for a streaming movie with a pre paid card.
3545~Website shall allow customers to purchase pre paid cards of $5 $10 or $20 value either by credit card or mail in payment option.
216~System shall automatically update the main page of the website every Friday and show the 4 latest movies that have been added to the website.
280~System shall allow users to update their billing and contact information via the My Account section of the website.
1~Pre paid cards shall be distributed via email or via a printed paper card.
4~Only registered customers can purchase streaming movies.
8~Movies can only be streamed if the customer has purchased a movie and is within the 2 day time period to stream the movie.
218~Website must be able to support free trial periods with various parameters set by the Izogn Manager.
33~All streaming movie sales will be logged in the database and accessible by the administrator.
25~All registered customer information shall be stored and maintained in the database even after the customer cancels their account.
10~Daily usage statistics should be logged and accessible by the administrator.
6~The owner shall have free access to all of the streaming movies.
10576~Total lead cycle time must be completed in 5 minutes for 90% of lead volume between the business hours of 8AM CST to 8PM CST then 3 minutes for 99% of lead volume during off business hours.
42~No lead evaluation will complete in a time period longer than 25 seconds for 97% of all leads processed.
8~For leads that process longer than 25 seconds the system will record the event and duration
7042~The process must fit within the processing time conditions set forth by the Auto Rep Assignment process in which a lead is assigned within 3 minutes of the total life cycle.
6~The lead washing process will operate within the established physical web service structure.
352~The washing process must use a non binding neutral data format such as xml when receiving and processing lead data.
2~Defect reports will be available to technical units on a 24x7 basis.
7~Washing parameters will be updated during scheduled maintenance hours.
3~The vendor will verify the invalid lead.
40~Vendor will submit a credit validation record to be applied to the enterprise billing system.
40~If a lead is scored to the high range the system will supply the lead data and score to the enterprise system.
232~The leads washing functionality will validate all leads received by the web service for valid data
46~The leads washing functionality will insert all leads captured by the web service.
168~If the leads score falls within the high average score then it will be process by the ARA functionality.
1020~If the leads score falls within the medium average then it will be set for manual verification by an Enrollment Coordinator through the eleads system.
34~If the leads score falls within the low average then it will be returned to the supplying vendor
192~The leads washing functionality will compile both contact and academic scoring information for a total score.
328~The leads washing functionality will use the parameters supplied by corporate and schools to score part of the lead.
408~The leads washing functionality will return the lead data supplied to the vendor along with the reason of rejection.
432~The leads washing functionality will have an interface in which lead data parameters can be maintained.
24~The leads washing functionality will verify the users authentication and rights to make parameter updates.
148~The leads washing functionality will store any potential lead duplicates returned by the enterprise system.
36~Prior to submitting the lead to the enterprise system the leads washing functionality will assign the lead to an admissions rep.
17~The leads washing functionality shall receive a period list of available reps from the enterprise system.
3~The product shall simulate the look of ships at sea.
14~The product shall display the grids within a circle as a view from a periscope.
9~The product shall display each type of ship in a grid using an image of the specific type of ship.
6~When the offensive player takes a shot the product shall simulate the sound of a ship at sea.
4~When a shot is marked as a miss the product shall simulate the sound of a shot missing its target.
4~When a shot is marked as a hit the product shall simulate the sound of a shot hitting its target.
3~When a ship is sunk the product shall simulate the sound of a sinking ship.
6~The product shall be available 24 hours per day seven days per week.
1~The product shall able to handle a large number of games simultaneously.
12~The response time shall be fast enough to maintain the flow of the game.
2436~The response time shall be no more than 2 seconds for 95% of responses and no more than 4% for the remaining responses.
1~The product shall protect the identity of the players.
14~The product shall provide players no access to information that might reveal the identity of another player.
1~The product shall be intuitive and self explanatory.
4~Nine out ten users shall be able to successfully complete a game with no training.
17~The product shall be available to players who understand English Spanish and French.
13~The product shall allow the user to select the language upon accessing the product.
14~The product shall provide players no access to information that might reveal the identity of another player
12~The response time shall be fast enough to maintain the flow of the game.
2436~The response time shall be no more than 2 seconds for 95% of responses and no more than 4% for the remaining responses.
1~The product shall maintain a list of players.
10~The product shall allow a user to identify himself or herself as a player.
136~Once a game has been initiated the product shall make the players assigned to the game unavailable for selection from the list of players.
86~The product shall allow a user to remove himself or herself from the list of players at any time.
20~The product shall make inactive players unavailable for selection from the list of players.
24~The product shall remove players who have been inactive for 24 hours from the list of players.
47~The product shall allow a player to initiate a game by selecting another available player from the list of players.
2~Once a game is initiated the product shall display a defensive grid to each player
4~Once a game is initiated the product shall display an offensive grid to each player.
18~The product shall prevent a player from viewing the offensive or defensive grids of the other player.
9~Once a game is initiated the product shall allow each player to position their 5 ships on their respective defensive grids.
8~The product shall allow a player to position ships horizontally on their grid.
8~The product shall allow the player to position ships vertically on their grid.
8~The product shall allow the player to position ships diagonally on their grid
17~The product shall prevent the player from overlapping ships on their grid.
24~When both players have positioned their 5 ships on their defensive grids the product shall define the status of each player for the first turn.
34~For each turn the product shall identify one player as offensive status and one player as defensive status.
234~The product shall maintain the status of each player for a turn either offensive or defensive.
10~At the start of each turn the product shall notify each player of his or her status.
6~For each turn the product shall allow the offensive player to define a shot.
44~For each shot the product shall examine the defensive grid of the defensive player to determine whether the shot was a hit or miss.
4~For each shot the product shall notify the players whether the shot was a hit or miss.
44~For each shot the product shall mark the shot as a hit or miss on the defensive grid of the defensive player.
176~For each shot the product shall mark the shot as a hit or miss on the offensive grid of the offensive player.
4~When the hit results in sinking a ship the product shall notify the players that the ship was sunk.
18~When the hit results in sinking a ship the product shall mark the ship as sunk on the defensive grid of the defensive player.
10~When the hit results in sinking a ship the product shall indicate the type of ship sunk on the defensive grid of the defensive player.
72~When the hit results in sinking a ship the product shall mark the ship as sunk on the offensive grid of the offensive player.
12~If the shot was marked as a hit the product shall allow the offensive player to define a shot.
38~If the shot was marked as a miss the product shall change the status of the offensive player to defensive
6~If the shot was marked as a miss the product shall change the status of the defensive player to offensive
3~The product shall continue to assign turns until the game is ended.
20~The product shall end a game when a hit by the offensive player results in sinking the last of the defensive players ships which had not been previously marked as sunk.
64~The product shall allow a player to end a game at any time during the game.
2~When a game is ended the product shall notify the players that the game is ended.
56~The notification of the game ending will include the reason the game is ended (i.e. a player has won the game or a player has ended the game).
43~When a game is ended the product shall allow each player to identify himself or herself as an available player in the list of players.
14~When a game is ended the product shall allow each player to remove himself or herself from the list of players.
4~The system shall be easy to use by callers and supervisors.
5~Callers and supervisors must be able to accomplish any system task within 2 minutes.
3~The system shall be easy to learn by callers and supervisors.
2~Callers and supervisors shall learn how to use the system within 10 minutes.
1~The system shall be responsive.
696~At the DePaul TeleServices Center when a supervisor uses the system to view a callers schedule the system response time must be no more than 2 seconds 90% of the time and no more than 5 seconds the rest of the time.
32~On a 56k connection the system response time for all operations must be no more than 6 seconds 90% of the time.
616~On a 112k connection or faster the system response time for all operations must be no more than 3 seconds 90% of the time.
3~The system shall have high availability every day of the year.
4~The system must be available for use between 12 AM and 6 PM all days of the year.
4~The system must be available for use between 7 AM and 1159 PM all days of the year.
7~The product shall be internet browser independent.
5~The product must run using Internet Explorer and Netscape Navigator.
1~The product shall ensure that only supervisors can advertise empty time slots.
16~The product must ensure that supervisors are allowed to access advertise empty time slots.
1~The product shall ensure that only supervisors can enter a callers schedule.
16~The product must ensure that supervisors are allowed to access advertise empty time slots.
1~The product shall ensure that only supervisors can view schedule of all callers.
16~The product must ensure that supervisors are allowed to access advertise empty time slots.
1~The interface shall have a simple look.
1~In the interface and usability survey 90% of beta testers must report that the interface is adequately simple.
5~The interface shall be appealing to callers and supervisors.
3~In the interface and usability survey 80% of beta testers must report that the interface is appealing.
2~The product shall provide GUI based Monitoring Services.
10~System Administrators shall monitor message exchanges will predict and determine problems and will also provide internal and external support.
15~The product shall comply with City of Chicago Application Development Guide Framework.
2~Application Development Framework will provide structured Graphical User Interface.
1~The product shall provide Monitoring Services.
5~The product shall be easy for System Administrators and DBAs to use after two weeks of usage.
1~The product shall provide Error Tracking Services.
33~The product shall help the System Administrators and DBAs to resolve transaction errors 99% of the time.
1~The product shall provide Portals.
18~The product shall help System Administrators to analyze the transactions with ad hoc reporting and KPIs (Key Performance Indicators)
1~The product shall provide Asynchronous Messaging.
8~The product shall provide asynchronous messaging to enable parallel processing and reduce the overhead in communications
1~The product shall provide Multi threading and Load Balancing.
308~The product shall provide multi threading technology as well as load balancing to overcome data load spikes and traffic.
2~The product shall process messages within 2 seconds.
6~The product shall have a maximum message processing time of 2 seconds
4~The product shall poll the system for messages every second.
18~The product shall poll the system for new messages at a maximum of every 1 second.
5~The product shall provide Dynamic Change Support and Transparent resource addition.
140~The product shall support Transparent Resource addition and Dynamic Change support to provide scalability and avoid service interruptions of more than 1 day.
3~The product shall be available 99% of the time To avoid service interruption during busiest customer service response periods.
6~The product shall be available 99.99% of the time for regular business days.
1~The product shall be robust.
4~The product shall have fault avoidance based on standards adoption.
1~The product shall be robust with fault tolerance.
20~The product shall have fault tolerance by using recovery technique compensatory transaction and routing around failures.
2~The product shall be able to process all transactions.
1~The product shall process minimum of 1 million transactions per year.
1~The product shall be platform independent.
4~The product shall enable access to any type of development environment and platform.
1~The product shall interface CSR and Datastream.
24~The product shall exchange messages between CSR and EAM on a real time basis without any direct interfaces between two systems.
3~The product shall continue to operate during upgrade change or new resource addition.
355~The product shall be able to continue to operate with no interruption in service due to new resource additions.
2~The product shall be updated on a regular basis.
50~The product will have a new major feature introduced every six months and quarterly maintenance releases every six months.
1~The product shall operate with every platform.
5~The product shall accommodate any new technology without any change in its architecture.
1~The product shall have security.
1~The product shall provide authentication and authorization.
1~The product shall information Security.
14~The product shall enable privacy by encryption WS Security and Integrity Checking.
1~The product shall have audit capabilities.
17~The product shall store messages for a minimum of one year for audit and transaction tracking purposes.
2~The system shall use IBM and CCR branding standards.
1~The interface must have one IBM logo and one CCR logo.
4~The system shall be displayable on any work computer a CCR user may have.
11~The system interface shall be formatted to display at 800 by 600 pixel resolution.
1~The system interface will use CCR nomenclature.
58~The system must use the same nomenclature used in the existing WCS system and reports
128~The interface must summarize the data in a fashion thats appealing to CCR management.
96~Every report type must have at least one high level summary shown in the results dashboard or interface
2~The system must use a point and click interface.
339~100% of all selection and navigation functionality must be able to be activated or selected by either a mouse or a keyboard
2~The interface shall be easy to use.
34~90% of users should be able to successfully use the system to generate a report on their first use.
1~The interface should adhere to IBM usability standards.
1~Rreports must be easy to generate.
2~Reports must be generated within one button click and exported within one button click (after selecting the report)
46~A user shall be able to use the system without instruction after a short amount of time.
6~After one use a user should understand and remember 90% of the system usage and navigation.
4~All CCR users shall receive training before the WCS system is deployed.
36~One training session will be held for 100% of CCR users before system deployment (based on a CCR user being available)
44~The WCS system shall use appropriate nomenclature and terminology as defined by the Corporate Community Grants organization.
12~All interfaces and reports will undergo usability tests by CCR users.
45~The WCS system shall be available at all times as long as IBMs internal intranet W3 is accessible.
12~The WCS system will be available 95% of the time IBMs internal intranet W3 is available.
9~The WCS system shall have the ability to connect other designated WCS databases currently not included in the system.
11264~The WCS system shall have the ability to include data for regions outside the United States and be accessed by users outside of the United States if approved by CCR management.
1~The WCS system shall be run in a Windows environment.
16~The WCS shall be accessed by users through the Internet on an IBM computer running a Windows 2000 or above operating system.
90~The Brio portion of the WCS system must be able to export files in spreadsheet form (Microsoft Excel and Lotus 1 2 3 formats).
14~Brio will provide buttons in the user interface that produce or export reports in .xls or .123 file formats.
32~The WCS system must run queries to the WCS databases once again (on a specified day) to update the available data available to CCR users.
1~Queries must be made to external databases for data refresh once a week.
91~All changes updates and additions to the WCS system shall be updated in the WCS Developer and WCS User Guides.
1~Every change must be reflected in WCS system documentation
2~The system shall only be accessed by authorized Corporate Community Grants (CCR) employees.
1~Users must be authenticated using their IBM intranet user name and password.
4~The WCS system shall not allow automatic logins by any user.
4~Cookies containing WCS login information about a user will not be stored on a users computer.
1136~Each team owner will need to use a username and password in order to be authenticated to reach the team owners page
4~The Commissioner will be the only authorized user per league to adjust league settings.
17~Each page shall contain a navigation menu which shows the index into which the current page is contained.
80~Each page shall contain a similar format with action items in one location and navigation buttons in a different location.
7~The message board shall contain the 5 most recently posted messages on the league page.
3~The messages will contain up to the first 150 characters of the message.
67~A new user shall be able to navigate through the league and team pages within 30 seconds of reaching the start up page.
345~Users shall be able to reach the add drop and trade player pages with one click from the team owners page.
28~Users shall be able to view at least 25 NFL player statistics and points on each page.
10~The application shall ask the user to confirm dropping a player or trading a player before performing the action.
72~The application shall be able to complete every user transaction within one fourth of a second of receiving the request over the network.
10~The application shall have a downtime of at most 10 minutes per year.
2~The application shall run on a web application server.
620~The maximum wait time for a user navigating from one screen to another within the Disputes application shall be no more than 5 seconds.
10~The Disputes application shall support 350 concurrent users without any degradation of performance in the application.
22~The Disputes application shall be available 24x7x365 with the exception of the following scheduled maintenance windows.
1~The Disputes application shall interface with the Statement Database.
8~The Statement Database provides the transaction details to the Disputes System.
6~All transaction details must be obtained from the Statement Database
58~A primary database will be used to store cached data for active users.
1~The system shall achieve 95% up time.
2~The system shall have a professional appearance
1~The product shall have a consistent color scheme and fonts.
4~The system shall be used by realtors with no training.
1~The system shall be intuitive and self explanatory.
3~The product shall be easy for a realtor to learn.
41~The product shall use symbols and words that are naturally understandable by the realtor community.
2~The product shall produce search results in an acceptable time
8~The search results shall be returned no later 30 seconds after the user has entered the search criteria
2~The product shall generate a CMA report in an acceptable time.
1~The CMA report shall be returned no later 60 seconds after the user has entered the CMA report criteria.
3~The product shall synchronize contacts and appointments in an acceptable time.
2~The product shall synchronize with the office system every hour.
6~The product shall be available for use 24 hours per day 365 days per year
2~Out of 1000 accesses to the system the system is available 999 times.
2~The product shall operate in offline mode whenever internet connection is unavailable.
90~The product shall allow the user to view previously downloaded search results CMA reports and appointments.
3~The product shall retain user preferences in the event of a failure.
6~100% of saved user preferences shall be restored when system comes back online.
6~The product shall be able to support multiple remote users
6~The product shall be able support 1000 simultaneous users.
238~The product shall be capable of handling the existing 1000 users, This number is expected to grow 5 times within the next year.
5~The product shall be installed by an untrained realtor without recourse to separately printed instructions.
14~90% of untrained realtors shall be able to install the product on their device without printed instructions
48~The product is expected to run on Windows CE and Palm operating systems.
4~Only registered realtors shall be able to access the system.
1~Every user of the system shall be authenticated and authorized.
36~The product shall prevent its data from incorrect data being introduced.
8~The system shall allow a real estate agent to query MLS information
15~The user shall be able to get driving directions to a selected property
23~The user shall be able to download appointments and contact information for clients
2~The system shall display clear property images in the search results
23~system shall be able to handle all of the user requests or usage during business hours.
10~The system shall cater to 10 simultaneous users from 9am to 5pm.
25~The system shall be capable of processing 100% of nursing students and their classes for the next 10 years.
126~The system shall be expected to manage the nursing program curriculum and class or clinical scheduling for a minimum of 5 years.
14~The system shall able to operate within a business office environment typical of the Nursing Department at DePaul University.
194~The system shall be used within the specifications defined by the computers used by the Program Administrators or Nursing Staff Members.
10~A secondary database will be used to store historical statistics and data.
8~The system shall be able to call the seller or buyer to schedule an appointment
4~The realtor shall be notified of new client appointments after automatic synchronization with office system
18~The realtor shall be able to retrieve a map showing property locations for a specified area
2~The system shall notify the realtor when a seller or buyer responds to an appointment request
5~The product shall allow the user to save the property search results.
37~The system shall be easy to use by the Program Administrators or Nursing Staff Members.
22~All of the users shall be able to use the system after one day of training.
32~The system shall help the user avoid making mistakes while scheduling classes and clinicals for the nursing students.
20~The number of mistakes noted by the students shall be decreased by 50% in the first year.
7~The system shall be intuitive to the Program Administrators or Nursing Staff Members.
2186~2 out of 3 Program Administrators or Nursing Staff Members shall successfully be able to use the system to manage the scheduling of classes and clinicals.
41~The system shall use symbols and words that are naturally understandable by the user community.
32~The verbiage used within the system shall be consistent with Standard English and the terminology of the national Nursing Community.
7~Staff members shall be able to complete a set of tasks in a timely manner.
722~The response time of general student management tasks shall take no longer than 5 seconds and the response time of schedule generation shall take no longer than 30 seconds.
19~The system shall be available for use between the hours of 8am and 6pm.
8~The system shall operate within the Windows XP Professional operating system.
1~The system shall interface with CampusConnects central server
1~The system shall interface with the faculty central server.
1~The system shall interface with the student master server.
6~We must be able to interface with any HTML browser.
4~Only authorized users shall have access to clinical site information.
32~Program Administrators or Nursing Staff Members are the only people who shall have access to clinical site details.
4~Only authorized users shall have access to students personal information.
16~Dr Susan Poslusny and Dr Julie Donalek are the only people who shall have access to students personal information.
20~Only authorized users shall have access to the portion of the system that interfaces with CampusConnect.
5208~Fit Criterion Dr Susan Poslusny and Karen Sysol are the only people who shall have access to the final class section scheduling for the system that interfaces with CampusConnect.
284~The system shall have basic data integrity checking to reduce the possibility of incorrect or invalid data being introduced.
18~The system shall protect private information in accordance with the organizations information policy.
158~The system shall be built such that it is as secure as possible from malicious interference.
42~The system shall use the organizations standard virus protection software to help monitor threats to itself.
3~A cohort shall be associated to one Program of Study offered by the department.
28~Program Administrators and Nursing Staff Members shall be able to add a listing of students to a cohort.
40~Program Administrators and Nursing Staff Members shall be able to add a single student to a cohort
2~Students added to a cohort shall be eligible for the cohorts Program of Study.
41~Program Administrators and Nursing Staff Members shall be able to specify the preferred sequence of classes for a given cohort.
9646~For each class within a sequence for a cohort Program Administrators and Nursing Staff Members shall be able to specify which quarter that class will be offered.
28~Program Administrators and Nursing Staff Members shall be able to add new classes to a sequence of classes
5~Application updates shall occur between 3AM and 6 AM CST on Wednesday morning during the middle of the NFL season.
9~New System version releases shall be released at the beginning of each NFL season.
64~The system shall display data from the Sync Matrix 1.0 and Exercise Management Tool 1.0 applications
12~The system shall link Events back to either the Sync Matrix 1.0 or the Exercise Managment Tool 1.0 applications for modifications.
1~The system shall allow modification of the display.
4~The system shall offer a display of all the Events in the exercise.
10~The system shall filter data by Venues and Key Events.
8~The system shall allow a user to define the time segments
16~The system shall display the local and exercise time in separate clocks
36~The system shall offer the ability to pause and resume the refresh of data.
24~The system shall provide charts for the Activity or Event actual versus assumed time.
3~The RFS system should be available 24 7 especially during the budgeting period.
7~The RFS system shall be available 90% of the time all year and 98% during the budgeting period.
36~2% of the time the system will become available within 1 hour of the time that the situation is reported.
144~98% of the user workstations shall meet the minimum hardware requirements prior to implementation, Minimum Hard Disk Space 400MB.
10~98% of the user workstations shall meet the minimum software requirements prior to implementation Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 Microsoft .NET Framework 1.1 Microsoft Internet Explorer Web Controls
22~The RFS system should be able to easily interface with the BDW environment in order to load the data
13322~7 data files shall be received from the BDW and loaded into the RFS system within 3 hours one day prior to the start of budgeting process every year.
20~Test files (7) shall be loaded up to 5 times throughout the year from the BDW.
297~Changes to revenue and expense formulae must be applied to the RFS system every year prior to the budgeting process start.
2001264~Revenue and expense formulae will be updated within one week of their receipt after which 2 weeks will be allotted to testing of the budget calculations to be conducted jointly by the project development team and PCG Finance.
56084~New branches or complexes or districts or regions and revenue or expense accounts added to the BDW must be reflected in the RFS system.
548~100% of the entities (mentioned above) available as of October month end will be loaded into the RFS system prior to the budget start process.
1~Only authorized user shall access the RFS system.
44~ONLY users that exist in the UAS system with the RFS system assigned to their role(s) shall access the RFS system and use it.
1534~User access should be limited to the permissions granted to their role(s) Each level in the PCG hierarchy will be assigned a role and users will be assigned to these roles.
48~Access to functionality within RFS system is dependent on the privileges or permission assigned to the role.
16~The product must comply with the intranet page standards and requirements of ENET Securities.
43~95% of the product look & feel will be approved by the Architecture group prior to implementation.
3~The remaining 5% will be corrected and approved within one month of product release.
2~The intranet pages should display appropriately in all resolutions from 800x600 and higher.
11~The display of all the pages will be correct in 95% of the resolutions prior to implementation.
4~The remaining 5% will be corrected within a week of notification of the incorrect display.
51~The users should be able to easily use the system to successfully complete their budgets within the stipulated time for completion.
68~With a week of training prior to product implementation 98% of the users shall complete their budgets within the stipulated time.
2~The product interface should be fast.
4~The response time of the product interface should not exceed 2 seconds 90% of the time.
8~For 10% of the time the response time should not be more than 10 seconds
198~The system will use the stored e mail addresses as a primary means of communicating information to affected parties.
101774~The system will notify affected parties for routine communication purposes including but not limited to informing students of upcoming offered classes (timeline) and what their schedule will be or shall be.
24~The system will notify affected parties when changes occur affecting clinicals including but not limited to clinical section capacity changes and clinical section cancellations.
1584~The system will notify affected parties when changes occur affecting classes including but not limited to class cancellations class section detail changes and changes to class offerings for a given quarter.
1~As a Data user, I want to have the 12 19 2017 deletions processed.
1~As a UI designer, I want to redesign the Resources page, so that it matches the new Broker design styles.
8~As a UI designer, I want to report to the Agencies about user testing, so that they are aware of their contributions to making Broker a better UX.
36~As a UI designer, I want to move on to round 2 of DABS or FABS landing page edits, so that I can get approvals from leadership.
26~As a UI designer, I want to move on to round 2 of Homepage edits, so that I can get approvals from leadership.
26~As a UI designer, I want to move on to round 3 of the Help page edits, so that I can get approvals from leadership.
40~As a Developer, I want to be able to log better, so that I can troubleshoot issues with particular submissions and functions.
112~As a Developer, I want to add the updates on a FABS submission to be modified when the publishStatus changes, so that I know when the status of the submission has changed.
10~As a DevOps engineer, I want New Relic to provide useful data across all applications.
26~As a UI designer, I want to move on to round 2 of the Help page edits, so that I can get approvals from leadership.
26~As a UI designer, I want to move on to round 2 of Homepage edits, so that I can get approvals from leadership.
3~As a Broker user, I want to Upload and Validate the error message to have accurate text.
144~As a Broker user, I want the D1 file generation to be synced with the FPDS data load, so that I don't have to regenerate a file if no data has been updated.
1~As a Website user, I want to access published FABS files, so that I can see the new files as they come in.
4~As an owner, I want to be sure that USAspending only send grant records to my system.
2~As a Developer, I want to update the Broker validation rule table to account for the rule updates in DB 2213.
32~As a Developer, I want to add the GTAS window data to the database, so that I can ensure the site is locked down during the GTAS submission period.
46~As a Developer, I want D Files generation requests to be managed and cached, so that duplicate requests do not cause performance issues.
4~As a user, I want to access the raw agency published files from FABS via USAspending.
10~As an Agency user, I want to be able to include a large number of flexfields without performance impact.
4~As a Broker user, I want to help create content mockups, so that I can submit my data efficiently.
247~As a UI designer, I want to track the issues that come up in Tech Thursday, so that I know what to test and what want s to be fixed.
48~As an Owner, I want to create a user testing summary from the UI SME, so that I can know what UI improvements we will follow through on.
4~As a UI designer, I want to begin user testing, so that I can validate stakeholder UI improvement requests.
20~As a UI designer, I want to schedule user testing, so that I can give the testers advanced notice to ensure buy in.
52~As an Owner, I want to design a schedule from the UI SME, so that I know the potential timeline of the UI improvements wanted.
256~As an Owner, I want to design an audit from the UI SME, so that I know the potential scope of the UI improvements want ed.
20~As a Developer, I want to prevent users from double publishing FABS submissions after refreshing, so that there are no duplicates.
8~As an data user, I want to receive updates to FABS records.
10~As an Agency user, I want to be able to include a large number of flexfields without performance impact.
9~As a Developer, I want to update the FABS sample file to remove FundingAgencyCode after FABS is updated to no longer require the header.
1~As an agency user, I want to ensure that deleted FSRS records are not included in submissions.
8~As a website user, I want to see updated financial assistance data daily.
1102~As a user, I want the publish button in FABS to deactivate after I click it while the derivations are happening, so that I cannot click it multiple times for the same submission.
2~As a Developer, I want to ensure that attempts to correct or delete non existent records don't create new published data.
16~As an Owner, I want to reset the environment to only take Staging MAX permissions, so that I can ensure that the FABS testers no longer have access.
240~As a user, I want the flexfields in my submission file to appear in the warning and error files when the only error is a missing required element.
28~As a user, I want to have accurate and complete data related to PPoPCode and PPoPCongressionalDistrict.
6~As an agency user, I want the FABS validation rules to accept zero and blank for loan records.
4~As an Agency user, I want FABS deployed into production, so I can submit my Financial Assistance data.
3~As a Developer, I want to clarify to users what exactly is triggering the CFDA error code in each case.
4~As an agency user, I want to be confident that the data coming from SAM is complete.
144~As a Developer, I want my domain models to be indexed properly, so that I can get validation results back in a reasonable amount of time.
6~As an agency user, I want the FABS validation rules to accept zero and blank for non loan records.
23~As a broker team member, I want to make some updates to the SQL codes for clarity.
64~As an agency user, I want to have all derived data elements derived properly.
103~As a broker team member, I want to add the 00***** and 00FORGN PPoPCode cases to the derivation logic.
52~As a data user, I want to see the office names derived from office codes, so that I can have appropriate context for understanding them.
3~As a broker user, I want the historical FABS loader to derive fields, so that my agency codes are correct in the PublishedAwardFinancialAssistance table.
1339~As a broker team member, I want to ensure the Broker resources, validations, and P&P pages are updated appropriately for the launch of FABS and DAIMS v1.1.
208~As a Developer, I want the data loaded from historical FABS to include the FREC derivations, so that I can have consistent FREC data for USASpending.gov.
8~As a user, I don't want to see NASA grants displayed as contracts.
11872~As a user, I want the DUNS validations to accept records whose ActionTypes are B, C, or D and the DUNS is registered in SAM, even though it may have expired.
548~As a user, I want the DUNS validations to accept records whose ActionDates are before the current registration date in SAM, but after the initial registration date.
2~As a broker team member, I want to derive FundingAgencyCode, so that the data quality and completeness improves.
77~As an agency user, I want the maximum length allowed for LegalEntityAddressLine3 to match Schema v1.1.
13~As an agency user, I want to use the schema v1.1 headers in my FABS file.
16~As a agency user, I want to map the FederalActionObligation properly to the Atom Feed.
102~As a Broker user, I want to have PPoPZIP+4 work the same as the Legal Entity ZIP validations.
708~As a FABS user, I want to link the SAMPLE FILE on the "What you want to submit" dialog to point to the correct file, so that I have an accurate reference for my agency submissions.
58~As an Agency user, I want FPDS data to be up to date daily.
4~As a user, I want to access the raw agency published files from FABS via USAspending.
8~As a Developer, I want to determine how agencies will generate and validate D Files from FABS and FPDS data.
8~As a user, I want to generate and validate D Files from FABS and FPDS data.
48~As an Agency user, I want the header information box to show updated date AND time, so that I know when it was updated.
10~As an Agency user, I want to receive a more helpful file level error when I upload a file with the wrong extension.
28~As a tester, I want to have access to test features in environments other than Staging, so that I can test any nonProd feature in any environment.
1~As a FABS user, I want to submission errors to accurately represent FABS errors, so that I know why my submission didn't work.
20~As a FABS user, I want the frontend URLs to more accurately reflect the page I'm accessing, so that I'm not confused.
156~As an Agency user, I want all historical Financial Assistance data loaded for FABS go live.
256~As a Developer, I want the historical FPDS data loader to include both extracted historical data and FPDS feed data.
6~As an Agency user, I want historical FPDS data loaded.
2~As an Agency user, I want to accurately see who created a submission, so that I'm not confused about who last updated a submission.
3~As an agency user, I want to get File F in the correct format.
8~As an Agency user, I want to better understand my file level errors.
8~As a Developer, I want to provide FABS groups that function under the FREC paradigm.
12~As a tester, I want to ensure that FABS is deriving fields properly through a robust test file plus a follow up check.
2~As an owner, I only want zero padded fields, so that I can justify padding.
14~As a Broker user, I want to submit records for individual recipients without receiving a DUNS error.
45~As a user, I want more information about how many rows will be published prior to deciding whether to publish.
104~As a Developer, I want to prevent duplicate transactions from being published and deal with the time gap between validation and the publishing decision.
19~As a FABS user, I want to submit a citywide as a PPoPZIP and pass validations.
96~As a Broker user, I want to have updated error codes that accurately reflect the logic and provide enough information, so that I can fix my submission.
16~As an agency user, I want to leave off the last 4 digits of the ZIP without an error, so that I can complete my submissions.
4~As a FABS user, I want to make sure the historical data includes all necessary columns, so that the information in the database is correct.
52~As a data user, I want to access two additional fields from the FPDS data pull.
4~As a FABS user, I want additional helpful info in the submission dashboard, so that I can better manage submissions and IG requests.
1~As a FABS user, I want to download the uploaded FABS file, so that I can get the uploaded file.
2~As a Developer I want to quickly access Broker application data, so that I can investigate issues.
160~As a Developer, I want to determine the best way to load historical FPDS data, so that I can load all FPDS data since 2007.
58~As a FABS user, I want the language on FABS pages to be appropriate for me, so that I am not confused.
12~As a FABS user, I do not want DABS banner messages and vice versa, so that I have the appropriate information for my application.
6~As a FABS user, I want to have read only access to DABS, so that I can view DABS pages without wanting two sets of permissions.
20~As a FABS user, I want to have my validations run in a reasonable amount of time.
6~As a FABS user, I want to see correct status labels on the Submission Dashboard, so that I can quickly see my submission history.
18~As an agency user, I want to know when the submission periods start and end, so that I know when the submission starts and ends.
141~As an agency user, I want a landing page to navigate to either FABS or DABS pages, so that I can access both sides of the site.
808~As an agency user, I want to submit my data elements surrounded by quotation marks, so that Excel won't strip off leading and trailing zeroes.
56~As a Public User, I want to Search for Information, so that I can obtain publicly available information concerning properties, County services, processes and other general information.
34~As a ProspectiveApplicant, I want to research requirements and to select a service, so that I can find the relevant service and or application type to initiate via the online portal.
288~As an Applicant, I want to Request PreApplication Assistance, so that I can receive a response to a request for a meeting or information that is a result of the preapplication assistance.
16~As a Customer, I want to Create a Customer Portal User Account, so that I can log on to the Customer Portal and perform transactions that first require user authentication.
72~As an Applicant, I want to Submit Application, so that I can provide my information, plans and or documents to initiate a transaction with the County.
10~As an Applicant, I want to Submit Supporting Documentation, so that I can satisfy documentation requirements for my application.
294~As an Applicant, I want to Pay Fee, so that I can satisfy outstanding charge associated with the service requested or received from the County.
9180~As an Applicant, I want to Check the Status of a transaction, so that I can understand where the provisioning of my service is in the process, such as information related to service levels, fees, plan review, permit, or inspection results.
4~As an Applicant, I want to Modify my Application, so that I can successfully change information on an application.
54~As a Staff member, I want to Perform a Completeness Review, so that I can validate when an application is complete and eligible for further technical review.
40~As a Staff member, I want to Record an Internal Note, so that I can share information with other Staff collaborating on the record.
17~As a Staff member, I want to Assign an Application for Detailed Review, so that I can review the for compliance and subsequently approved or denied.
293~As a Staff member, I want to Apply a Hold, so that I can prevent progression through the workflow or other actions in the system until the issue is resolved.
102~As a Staff member, I want to Remove a Hold, so that I can allow progression through the workflow or other actions in the system now that the issue has been resolved.
9~As a Staff member, I want to Send a Formal Response to Applicant, so that I can satisfy communication and records responsibilities.
56~As a Staff member, I want to Track the Draft Proffers, so that I can preserve the history of draft proffer statements submitted by the Applicant.
310~As a Staff member, I want to Manage Approved Proffers, so that I can ensure compliance with and satisfaction of the proffer in the future.
12~As a Staff member, I want to Manage Ordinances, so that I can maintain accurate ordinance information in the System.
28~As a Staff member, I want to Schedule a Meeting, so that I can bring the required parties together at a specific date time to address an issue.
104~As a staff member, I want to denote an application with a Final Action status, So that I can finish it.
288~As a Planning Staff member, I want to Conduct and Track Plan Amendments and Planning Studies, so that I can record work in process, outcome, and location based information related to the Plan(s).
60~As a Planning Staff member, I want to Generate Planning related Reports, so that I can access, analyze and or export the needed information in the format I requested.
416~As a Planning Staff member, I want to Evaluate Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, so that I can complete my required review of a plan set and or application.
242~As a Staff member, I want to Perform a Staff Review, so that I can validate compliance of an application with the Zoning Ordinance and impact approval or denial of the application accordingly.
1392~As a Zoning Staff member, I want to Process the Requests for Zoning Information, so that I can capture my response to the request in the system and also send a communication from the system to the Applicant.
6272~As a Zoning Staff member, I want to Issue the Zoning Related Permits, so that I can satisfy an Applicant's request for service that has proven to be eligible and in compliance with the Zoning Ordinance.
10~As a Staff member, I want to Develop a Staff Report, so that I can publish and distribute the report according to business rules.
18~As a Staff member, I want to Manage Hearing Calendars, so that I can track hearing related activities and due dates.
2432~As a Staff member, I want to Assign a Hearing Date, so that I can present the application to the appropriate governing body within the timelines dictated by the relevant County rules and procedures.
132~As a Staff member, I want to Manage Affidavits, so that I can ensure compliance with the requirements prior to the hearing.
2430~As an Applicant, I want to Satisfy Hearing Requirements, so that I can ensure all pre hearing requirements are satisfied in time for the hearing.
242672~As a Staff member, I want to Prepare for and Support Hearing Execution, so that I can ensure all pre hearing requirements are satisfied and staff and Applicant are ready for the hearing.
2~As a Staff member, I want to Capture a Hearing Decision, so that I can enforce the system.
32~As a Staff member, I want to Process the Appeals, so that I can track the outcome and record the impact on the relevant records.
48~As a Plan Review Staff member, I want to Assign Plans for Review, so that I can ensure plans have been assigned to the appropriate Plan Reviewer.
14841~As a Plan Review Staff Supervisor, I want to Manage Plan Reviewer Workload, so that I can monitor and effectively adjust workload as necessary and ensure service levels are met
48~As an Applicant, I want to Request a Plan Review Meeting, so that I can meet with the Plan Review Staff regarding the plan review.
24~As a Plan Review Staff member, I want to successfully Conduct a Plan Review Meeting with the Applicant and record the outcome, so that I can listen to it again.
112552~As a Plan Review Staff member, I want to Review Plans, so that I can review them for compliance and either approve, or fail or deny the plans and record any conditions, clearances, or corrections needed from the Applicant.
6~As an Applicant, I want to Resubmit Plans, so that I can review revised plans.
128~As a Plan Review Staff Member, I want to Review the Code Modifications submitted by the Applicant, so that I can review the request and if approved, associate it with the appropriate project.
12528~As a Plan Review Staff member, I want to Track the Completion of Required Plan Reviews, so that I can ensure all plan review tasks are completed, results have been sent to the Applicant and any downstream steps are initiated such has a final review or payment for permit issuance.
60~As a Development Staff member, I want to Issue a Development related Permit, so that I can grant the request to the Applicant to begin work
3~As a Staff member, I want to Manage Bonds, so that I can track and manage bonds throughout the lifecycle of the project until release.
28~As an Applicant, I want to Complete Building Development Project, so that I can receive any posted bond and or obtain occupancy.
6~As a Customer, I want to Request Inspection, so that a County inspector is assigned to perform an inspection of my project.
4~As an Inspection Staff member, I want to Create an Inspection, so that I can schedule and assign the inspection.
7~As an Inspection Staff Supervisor, I want to Assign Inspections, so that I can make sure the appropriate Inspector receives the work.
10~As an Inspection Supervisor, I want to Manage Inspector Workload, so that I can meet service level and quality requirements.
102~As an Inspector, I want to Conduct Inspections, so that I can validate Customer compliance with code and regulations and provide results of the inspection to the Customer.
8~As an Enforcement Staff member, I want to Issue a Notice of Violation, so that I can provide formal communication to the responsible party.
62~As a Staff member, I want to search for Property information, so that I can obtain all associated current and historic owners, permits, and applications.
9924~As a Staff member, I need to be notified when Geospatial attributes change, so that I can ensure that I am reviewing the permit or application to the most current data and appropriate standards.
1855~As a County Staff Member, I want to create a custom query or report outside of the common querying or reporting functionality, so that I can fulfill a request.
2~As a Staff member, I want to create each condo unit, so that I can associate it to the child parcel and address after the condominiums are recorded in the system.
272~As a Technical Staff member, I want to update the GIS Property Management, so that I can successfully update the transactional Parcel Pin to reference the GIS layer where the Split or Merged Parcel Pin exists.
1300~As a Staff member, I want to Send or Post Citations and Fines, so that I can successfully send the Notice Of Violation document to the property owner and log information about the action.
6~As a user, I want to click on the address, so that it takes me to a new tab with Google Maps.
240~As a user, I want to be able to anonymously view public information, so that I know about recycling centers near me before creating an account.
108~As a user, I want to be able to enter my zip code and get a list of nearby recycling facilities, so that I can determine which ones I should consider.
116~As a user, I want to be able to get the hours of each recycling facility, so that I can arrange drop offs on my off days or during after work hours.
1~As a user, I want to have a flexible pick up time, so that I can more conveniently use the website.
3960~As a user, I want to be able to select different types of recyclable waste, so I have and get a list of facilities that accept each type and their opening hours, so that I can find an optimal route and schedule.
7~As a user, I want to add donation centers as favorites on my profile, so that I can view them later.
24~As a user, I want to be able to give my email ID, so that I can receive notifications for new events as they are posted.
132~As a user, I want to be able to view a map display of the public recycling bins around my area.
114~As a user, I want to be able to view a map display of the special waste drop off sites around my area.
52~As a user, I want to be able to view the safe disposal events currently being organised around my area.
1~As a user, I want to choose a flexible pick up time, so that I can more conveniently use the website.
4~As a user, I want to view user documentation for the website, so that I know how to use the web app.
20~As a user, I want to get feedback when I enter an invalid zip code.
4~As a user, I want to be able to create an acocunt, so that I can create my own profile.
80~As an admin, I want to be able to add or remove recycling facilities' information, so that users get the most recent information.
144~As an admin, I want to be able to read users' feedback and complaints, so that we can add more features and keep improving the service we provide to them.
22~As a user, I want to be able to check transaction history and keep a record of it, so that I can go back when needed.
6~As a user, I want to have a great UI and UX from the sites, so that I have a pleasant experience when navigating through them.
143~As a user, I want to be able to access the site and do all the other stuffs on all of my electronic devices.
40~As an admin, I want to be able to block specific users based on IP address, so that I can prevent spamming on the websites.
450~As an admin, I want to view a dashboard that monitors all the sites' statuses, so that I can have a sense of what people are doing on our sites and know the service status.
40~As an admin, I want to have all data encrypted, so that important information will not be stolen during a server breach or an attack.
68~As an executive, I want to have full access to data related to my company, so that I can have a sense of my company's performance.
4~As an employee, I want to access the route planning system during work, so that I can be guided through the neighbourhood.
212~As an employee from the HR department, I want to have access to the full information of all employees working for this business.
8~As a developer, I want to access an API from the website, so that I can integrate it and implement certain features in my own iOS application.
16~As a user, I want to be able to receive tempting rewards, so that I have a reason to use the website.
90~As a user, I want to have my personal information kept securely in the database of the website, so that I will not suffer from identity theft or telephone harassment.
2~As an admin, I want to handle all users' activities, so that I can manage more efficiently.
108~As a company, I want to have a website that is easy to use, so that I can upload or delete stuff step by step.
2~As an employee, I want to get quick notifications, so that I can process cases the first time.
4~As a company accountant, I want to view all available activity fees online, so that I can easily create a bill statement.
11~As a developer, I want to use bootstrap in the process of developing, so that I can easily design my website.
3~As a developer, I want to attend some UI or UX lessons, so that I can develop an awesome and beautiful features website.
117~As a user, I want to view all locations of recycling centers on a map, so that I can check which routes to take to drop off waste.
34~As a user, I want to upload my week's schedule, so that I can get recommendations for recycling centers that best fit my availability.
6~As a user, I want to link my email account to my profile, so that I can get a temporary password in case I forget my own one.
3~As a user, I want to contact the administrators, so that I can give feedback or ask for help.
4~As an admin, I want to add recycling center information, so that I can keep the database up to date over time.
31~As an admin, I want to view user error logs, so that I can fix or review any issues that are being faced by users of the system.
2~As an admin, I want to onboard recycling centers on the platform, so that I can increase information accuracy.
2~As a superuser, I want to update the recycling center information, so that I can provide the latest information about the recycling center.
1969~As a superuser, I want to view users' stats, so that I can view in real time how many users have visited my recycling center information and their recyclable waste.
4~As a superuser, I want to reply to user questions, so that I can answer any questions about my recycling center.
5980~As an admin, I want to be able to have a dashboard that shows usage stats and locations, so that I can identify the neighbourhoods with the largest number of drop offs and to try getting more facilities involved.
18~As an admin, I want to be able to communicate directly with facilities, so that I can keep them updated about features we have on our website.
228~As a user, I want to be able to browse through the list of facolities and see which ones are environment friendly, so that I can know for sure my waste is not going to leave a negative ecological footprint.
1050~As a recycling facility representative, I want to be able to update my information and the type of material I accept, so that I can avoid any miscommunication with users.
232440~As a recycling facility representative, I want to have access to user stats and schedules, so that I can adjust my hours and or upgrade equipment and capacity in order to be able to accomodate larger amounts of recyclable materials.
2311~As a recycling facility, I want to be able to communicate directly with the site admin and convey any issues or concerns I have, so that they fix them.
225~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to edit a dataset I have published, So that I can correct or enhance existing data.
8928~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to edit the model of data I have already imported, So that I can fix bugs or make enhancements in the API built for my data.
629~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to delete a dataset I have published, So that I can remove unwanted data from OpenSpending.
1212~As a Platform Administrator, I want to be able to Hide any dataset already added as Public, So that I can maintain Public or Hidden status for other users.
294~As a Platform Administrator, I want to have a view on all datasets published by all users, So that I can perform management actions on any dataset.
2078~As a Platform Administrator, I want to be able to delete any dataset published, So that I can deal with takedown requests, or clean up test datasets.
17856~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to edit the data source of data I have already imported, So that I can fix bugs or make enhancements in the API built for my data.
42~As a Data Publishing User, I want to have the Packager support Constants, So that I can model dimensions that may not exist in the source file.
5176~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to import data in Excel, So that I do not have to convert data formats in order to use the data packager.
2683~As a Data Publishing User, I want to know what my data needs to be able to be visualised on a map, So that I can visualise it on a map.
5176~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to import data in JSON, So that I do not have to convert data formats in order to use the data packager.
8162~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to import data from a Google Spreadsheet, So that I do not have to convert data formats in order to use the data packager.
45680~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to import data from Fiscal Data Package descriptor file, So that I do not have to convert data formats in order to use the data packager.
80~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to provide the Platform Administrator with additional GeoJSON sources, So that I can improve the map based visualisations of my data.
39308~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to filter, sort and aggregate data by multiple dimensions and measures, So that I can get more granular views on the data.
79348~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to download a CSV of the data that is used in any visualisation I am viewing, So that I can use the data in other tools.
126~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to change the display of all monetary measures across a set of currencies, So that I can understand localised amounts in non localised figures.
22~As a Data Consuming User, I want to see textual descriptions that accompany embedded visualisations, So that I can more easily understand what I am viewing.
1998~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to share a view state as a URL to social networks, So that I can share data that I have found with others.
69~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to download an image ofa particular view state, So that I can use it offline.
1248~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to share an image of a particular view state to the social networks that support this, So that I can provide richer context in those communication channels for data I am sharing.
108~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to have stepped zoom on map visualisations, So that I can have better control over the navigation experience inside a map view.
6~As a Data Consuming User, I want to have consistent use of colour on map visualisations, So that I can better understand the visual logic of the map view.
1164~As a Developer, I want to be able to customise the Brand Name and Icon, and Primary Color of all frontend Javascript apps, So that I can customise the branding for my own needs.
44~As an API User, I want to be able to understand if a user is a Publisher, So that I can offer functionality based on Dataset Publisher privileges.
44~As an API User, I want to be able to understand if a user is an Administrator, So that I can offer functionality based on Platform Administration privileges.
128~As an API User, I want to be able to get bordering regions or cities when I query a region or city, So that I can provider wider visual context for mapping visualisations.
68~As an API User, I want to be able to dynamically request polygons based on the query made, So that I can provide maps that match the query.
1485~As an API User, I want to have a flexible API using HASC codes for countries, regions and cities, So that I can visualise budget data on maps.
160~As an API User, I want to be able to get a CSV output of any cube based query, So that I can use work with tools that read CSV.
320~As an API User, I want to be able to get a set of monetary measures transferred to different currencies, So that I can use this in scenarios that might enable comparison by normalisation.
51781~As an API User, I want to be able to use metadata to get results from multiple datasets, So that I can build user experiences based on more than one dataset more easily.
78426~As an API User, I want to be able to use data to get results from multiple datasets, So that I can build user experiences based on more than one dataset more easily.
233~As an API User, I want to be able to normalise measures by population, So that I work with datasets in reference to their contextual constraints.
410~As an API User, I want to be able to normalise measures by geographical area, So that I work with datasets in reference to their contextual constraints.
252~As an API User, I want to be able to normalise measures by GDP, so I work with datasets in reference to their contextual constraints.
2935~As an API User, I want to be able to normalise measures by GINI and related socioeconomic indexes, So that I work with datasets in reference to their contextual constraints.
2856~As an API User, I want to be able to get a relative percentage of a measure to the total of the dataset it comes from, So that I can build alternative displays of the data.
14~As an API User, I want to be able to persistently store visualisation state in the database, So that such can be shared more easily and contribute to a visualisation gallery.
85~As a Data Publishing User, I want to have my dataset update automatically as the source file or files changes, So that OpenSpending always shows current data.
7852~As an OpenSpending Community Member, I want to have a blog that highlights any and all projects in the open fiscal space, So that I can relate to openspending.org as the central hub of fiscal openness.
2206~As a User, I want to be able to set my own username, So that my data is more easily discoverable.
1943~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to add a dataset in a Hidden state, So that I can work on a dataset before having it discoverable via OpenSpending user interfaces.
42~As a Data Publishing User, I want to be able to Hide a dataset that I have already added as Public, So that I can fix my mistakes or have a dataset primarily for my own use.
25~As a Data Publishing User, I want to have a view on all the datasets I have published, So that I can perform management actions on my own datasets.
638~As a Data Publishing User, I want to have a functioning Python Client, So that I can add data to the datastore in bulk from the command line or my own programs.
200~As an OpenSpending Community Member, I want to have an app where I can find examples of use of fiscal data visualisations, So that I can find guidance in creating my own with Open Spending.
16~As a Data Publishing User, I want to know if my CSV file is valid, So that I can fix possible data issues before publishing it on Open Spending.
432~As a Data Consuming User, I want to be able to search any dataset published and publicly accessible by their title and metadata, So that I can find the datasets I'm interested in.
28~As a Data Consuming User, I want to visualize by default in treemap, bubble tree, map and pivot table the most recent year when my dataset contain multiple years, So that I'm not confused with the amounts.
16~As an API user, I want to be able to change the colors of the embedded visualisations in my own platform, So that I can customize the visualisations.
5691~As an API user, I want to be able to change some of the styling of the embedded Viewer in my own platform, So that I can brand it to my own organisation's color scheme.
104~As a Platform administrator, I want to be able to translate the data types hierarchies of the Viewer while in embed mode, So that my users can understand the interface in their native language.
84~As a Developer, I want to get a Data Package into Node, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Researcher, I want to get a Data Package into Julia in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
32~As a Publisher, I want to add type information to my data, so that it is more useful to others and can be used better with tools like visualization programs.
1144~As a Publisher, I want to be able to provide a visualization of data in the Data Package, so that I can provide my analysis and show my work to users of the data.
16~As a Researcher, I want to be able to save new visualizations, so that I can share them with others or include them in the Data Package.
44~As a ResearcherPublisher, I want to know that my data conforms to its Data Package profile, so that I can feel trust in the validity and usefulness of the data.
37~As a ResearcherPublisher, I want to understand the ways in which my data is invalid, so that I can know how to fix it.
84~As a Researcher, I want to get a Data Package into R in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Researcher, I want to get a Data Package into Excel in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Researcher, I want to get a Data Package into SPSS in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Researcher, I want to get a Data Package into STATA in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
126~As a Researcher, I want to be able to translate my EML dataset to a Data Package, so that I can benefit from the wide array of tools available for Data Packages.
84~As a Researcher, I want to get a Data Package into LibreOffice or OpenOffice in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Developer, I want to get a Data Package into Python in seconds, so that I can start using the data for doing analysis and visualizations.
1392~As a Developer, I want a jQuery plugin for Core Data Packages, so that I can use it to apply to form control that uses a core dataset for autocompletion.
28~As a Researcher, I want to get my Excel spreadsheet into a Data Package, so that I can benefit from better tooling and standardization.
48~As a Developer, I want to do exploratory data analysis in R and operationalize that analysis in Python, so that I can use the best tool for the job.
84~As a Developer, I want to get a Data Package into Clojure in seconds, so that I can start using the data in doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Developer, I want to get a Data Package into Julia in seconds, so that I can start using the data in doing analysis and visualizations.
84~As a Developer, I want to get a Data Package into C++ in seconds, so that I can start using the data in doing analysis and visualizations.
1176~As a Machine Learning expert, I would like to package ML datasets as data packages, so that I can easily import them into my ML platform, so that I can start using the data in doing analysis.
20~As a Developer, I want an Elasticsearch integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use Elasticsearch.
20~As a Developer, I want an SPSS integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use SPSS.
10~As a Developer, I want an EPrints integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use EPrints.
20~As a Developer, I want a Mongo integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use Mongo.
20~As a Developer, I want a DAT integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use DAT.
64~As a Researcher Government Publisher, I want to add general reference data to my narrow dataset, so that my dataset is more useful.
20~As a Researcher Government Publisher, I want to add general country names to my dataset that only contains country codes, so that my dataset is more readable.
1536~As a Researcher Government Publisher, I want to add reference data on inflation to my spending dataset, so that the spending lines in my dataset is more understandable.
248~As a Researcher Government Publisher, I want to map lines in my dataset using geographic data in my dataset, so that my dataset is more engaging for non technical users.
144~As a Researcher, I want to be able to reference a remote controlled vocabulary for my dataset, so that I can be sure that column of my dataset are valid against a single shard list of terms.
20~As a developer, I want an DSpace integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use Dspace.
10~As a Developer, I want Feather integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use Feather.
10~As a Developer, I want HDF5 integration, so that I can integrate data packaged data with pipelines that use HDF5.
200~As a Researcher, working with data, I want an Microsoft Power BI integration, so that I can import datasets without downloading them locally.
78~As a ResearcherPublisher, I want an integration with Zenodo, so that when I store my dataset in GitHub, I don't have to retype descriptive information about my dataset.
6~As a Publisher, I would like an integration with Open Refine, so that I can output cleaned Data Packages.
18~As a ResearcherPublisher, I want to publish Data Packages to CKAN, so that my data is findable, and I can have a data API.
5~As a ResearcherDeveloper, would like the ability import or export from MS SQL, so that I can use Data Packages in workflows that involve MS SQL.
120~As a Researcher, working with data in NetCDF, I want NetCDF integration, so that I can store my data in plaintext while still retaining its metadata.
24~As a Researcher, I want an integration with mendeley, so that I can validate my data upon ingest to the service.
4~As a Publisher, I would like an integration with Excel, so that I can output cleaned Data Packages.
2~As a Publisher, I want to store my data quickly and easily online.
16032~As a Repository Manager, I want a tool that makes it easy for researchers or users to add basic metadata to their research data, so that it is more findable and therefore useful.
264~As a ResearcherPublisher, I want validate my data with a minimum of clicks, so that I can feel trust in the validity and usefulness of the data.
39366~As a publisher, I want to be able to check that every time I update my data it is still good, so that I can catch errors early and store reliable data.
14136~As a DeveloperWrangler, I want to use a command line tool that allows met to validate data, so that I can feel trust in the validity and usefulness of the data quickly and in the context of my command line workflow.
560~As a developer, I want an online service that is connected to my data repository that validates data on update, so that I can delegate data validation to a third party.
48~As a government Publisher, I want to make it easy to prove that our published data is valid, so that I can claim that we are living up to our transparency commitments.
624~As a Civic Tech Activist, I want to make it easy to assess the quality of data stored by the government, so that I can make sure that government is living up to its transparency commitments.
3048~As a publisher, I want to embed an interactive preview of my data on my site, so that users can be encouraged that this is the correct data for them.
96~As a publisher, I want to embed a preview button on my site, so that users can preview the data and be encouraged that this is the correct data for them.
12~As a Publisher, I want to know how many users have previewed a dataset, so that I know how interest in a dataset relates to its actual download numbers.
20~As a Developer, I want to customize an existing wizard for my specific type of data, so that I can give my users a great user experience.
222~As a Publisher, I want to add useful metadata or add in new data columns to make the dataset more useful.
24~As a publisher, I want to package reproducible steps to get a certain data state, so my methodology is transparent and can be rerun by others.
150~As a Developer Data Wrangler, I want to store my Data Package in GitHub and have it automatically stored into CKAN, so that I get a data API and my dataset is listed in a relevant catalog.
12~As a Researcher, I want a tool that can generate basic statistics about a dataset, so that I can get a quick preview of the data.
56~As a DeveloperPublisher, I want a tool to create an embeddable data summary via iframe, so that I can embed data summaries across sites.
36~As a Researcher, I want an app that generates an OpenRefine reconciliation API endpoint from a Tabular Data Package, so that I can use it to clean messy data.
904~As a Researcher, I want an app that create proxy Data Packages for well know and reliable data, sources, so that I can load high quality data using Data Package tooling.
2016~As a Repository Manager Researcher, I want an app that acts as a match making service for packaging data, so that owners are paired with data packagers.
64~As a developer, I would like to create a web socket protocol for Frictionless data tools, so that I can easily use data packages with additional data analysis tools.
10~As a Publisher, I would like a tool to check data availability persistence after publication.
278~As a Researcher Publisher, I want to specify the funding that contributed to the creation of a given dataset, so that funding agencies can identify the funding, source for a given dataset.
6~As a Researcher Publisher, I want to add a DOI to a dataset, so that I can cite it in papers stored with the data.
2~As a site member, I want to describe myself on my own page in a semi structured way, so that others can learn about me.
10~As a site member, I want to fill out an application to become a Certified Scrum Practitioner, so that I can earn that designation.
6~As a Practitioner, I want to include additional details about me in my profile page, so that I can showcase my experience.
40~As a site member, I want to fill out an application to become a Certified Scrum Trainer, so that I can teach CSM and CSPO courses and certify others.
180~As a Trainer, I want to include additional details in my profile page about me, so that others can learn about me and decide if I am the right trainer for them.
58806~As a Practitioner, I want to write an article for the site with a small graphic shown with the article showing my CSP or CST status, so that others know my certifications when reading.
64~As a trainer, I want to list my upcoming classes in my profile and include a link to a detailed page about each, so that prospective attendees can find my courses.
1~As a site member, I want to view the profiles of other members, so that I can find others I might want to connect with.
8~As a site member, I want to search for profiles based on a few fields, so that I can find others I might want to connect with.
298~As a site member, I want to mark my profile as private in which case only my name will appear, so that no one can learn things about me I don't want shared.
284~As a site member, I want to mark my email address as private even if the rest of my profile is not, so that no one can contact me.
5~As a site member, I want to send an email to any member via a form, so that we can connect.
1100~As a site administrator, I want to read practicing and training applications and approve or reject them, so that only applicants who qualify can become CSPs or CSTs.
2~As a site administrator, I want to edit any site member profile, so that I can correct problems for members.
4~As a site visitor, I want to read current news on the home page, so that I stay current on agile news.
432~As a site visitor, I want to access old news that is no longer on the home page, so that I can access things I remember from the past or that others mention to me.
2~As a site visitor, I want to email news items to the editor, so that they can be considered for publication.
144~As a site editor, I want to set the following dates on a news item: Start Publishing Date, Old News Date, Stop Publishing Date, so that articles are published on and through appropriate dates.
1~As a site member, I want to subscribe to an RSS feed of news, so that I remain sufficiently and easily informed.
24~As a site editor, I want to assign priority numbers to news items, so that I can indicate which articles I want featured most prominently on the site.
108~As a site visitor, I want to see a list of all upcoming Certification Courses and can page through them if there are a lot, so that I can choose the best course for me.
8~As a site visitor, I want to see a list of all upcoming Other Courses and can page through them if necessary, so that I can choose the best course for me.
10~As a site visitor, I want to see a list of all upcoming Events, so that I can decide if I want to attend any.
2~As a trainer, I want to create a new course or event, so that site visitors can see it.
72~As a trainer, I want to create an Other Course or Event I am charged a listing fee for that activity, so that I don't list events I don't really intend to hold.
256~As a site administrator, I want to create an Other Course or Event that is not charged a listing fee, so that the Scrum Alliance doesn't charge itself for Scrum Gatherings that it puts on.
80~As a site administrator, I want to set the listing fee per Other Course or Event, so that we have flexibility on what to charge in the future.
7~As a trainer, I want to update one of my existing courses or events, so that it reflects accurate information.
30~As a trainer, I want to delete one of my courses or events, so that it's no longer listed if I cancel for some reason.
3~As a trainer, I want to copy one of my courses or events, so that I can create a new one.
3~As a site admin, I want to delete any course or event, so that I can remove things that will no longer occur.
2~As a site editor, I want to update any course or event, so that I can fix things the original author hasn't.
54~As a trainer, I want to turn a course into an event or an event into a course, so that I can correctly classify anything that was entered incorrectly.
80~As a site visitor, I want to have an advanced search option that lets me fill in a form of search criteria, so that I can quickly find what I am looking for.
68~As a site visitor, I want to view a course I can click on the trainer's name and be taken to the trainer's profile, so that I can read more about a trainer before registering for a course.
60~As a site visitor, I want to subscribe to an RSS feed of upcoming courses and events, so that I am up to day without having to visit the site.
1~As a site visitor, I want to read FAQs, so that I can get quick answers.
6~As a site editor, I want to maintain a FAQ section, so that support gets fewer easily answered questions.
2~As a site visitor, I want to do a full text search of the FAQs, so that I can find an answer quickly.
11~As a site member, I want to download the latest training material and methodology PDFs, so that I have them.
28~As a visitor, I want to download presentations, PDFs, etc on Scrum, so that I can learn from them or use them.
6~As a site member, I want to scroll through a listing of jobs, so that I can see if there any I am interested in.
1~As a recruiter, I want to post a help wanted ad, so that I can attract candidates.
108~As a site admin, I want to approve each help wanted ad before it gets to the site, so that we're sure of the quality of jobs being listed.
30~As a site admin, I want to be emailed whenever a job is submitted, so that I am aware of it and can decide if I want to post it.
24~As a site member, I want to subscribe to an RSS feed of jobs available, so that I can read them without visiting the site.
30~As a site admin, I want to edit and delete help wanted ads, so that I can correct small problems or make sure each ad complies with site guidelines.
48438~As a site admin, I want to stop publishing jobs on the site 30 days after being posted, so that jobs that may have been filled aren't still listed when the hiring party forgets to come back and delete the ad.
113~As a recruiter, I want to be able to extend an ad for another 30 days by visiting the site and updating the posting, so that my ad remains active.
25~As an advertiser, I want to be emailed a reminder seven day before an ad is about to expire, so that I can go extend the ad.
14~As a site visitor, I want to read a new article on the front page about once a week, so that I am up on all the latest happenings.
20~As the site editor, I want to include a teaser with each article, so that site visitors can decide if they want to read the rest.
130~As a site member who has read a teaser on the front page, I want to read the entire article so that I can finish articles that appeal to me.
2~As the site editor, I want to add an article to the site, so that the site has plenty of content.
76~As a site editor, I want to set start publishing dates, old article date, and stop publishing dates for articles, so that articles appear only during appropriate periods.
12~As a site editor, I want to be able to designate whether or not an ever makes the home page, so that the best content is featured most prominently.
8~As the site editor, I want to have pretty good control over how the article, so that articles are visually appealing.
80~As a site visitor, I want to click the link from the article teaser to take me directly to the body of the article, not to another teaser setup, so that I can easily finish the article.
2~As a site editor, I want to be able to indicate whether an article is publicly available or for members only, so that visitors are incentivized to become members.
12~As a site visitor, I want to be able to read some of your articles, so that I can learn without first joining the site.
16~As a site member, I want to have full access to all articles, so that there is a benefit to being a member.
2~As a site visitor, I want to do a full text search of article body, title, and author name, so that I can find what I want.
3~As a site visitor, I want to subscribe to an RSS feed of articles, so that I can read them without visiting the site.
2~As a site visitor, I want to post comments about articles, so that others can read them.
40~As a site editor, I want to have a prominent area on the home page where I can put special announcements not necessarily news or articles, so that I can give them additional exposure.
4~As a site editor, I want to have some flexibility as to where things appear, so that I can accommodate different types of content.
60~As a trainer, I want to see the upcoming courses are what I want visitors to notice, so that they register and there's a benefit to my membership.
6~As a site visitor, I want to see new content when I come to the site, so that I come back more often.
72~As a site visitor, I want to have articles that interest me and are easy to get to, so that I come to the site for my agile news and learning.
384~As a site visitor, I want to know as soon as I visit what on earth Scrum is and why it needs an alliance, so that I don't bounce immediately oﬀ the page.
1740~As a site visitor, I want to know as I glance around the home page what on earth a CSM is and why I'd want to be one, so that I read more.
7~As a site visitor, I want to be able to get back to the home page quickly and easily, so that I don't get lost navigating.
180~As a site visitor, I want to see a list of the most popular items on the site, so that I am most likely to read the most important or best content.
58~As a trainer, I want to be assured that no one can submit the same answers multiple time and skew my results, so that my ratings are accurate.
5~As a trainer, I want to be notified about the results of surveys about my classes, so that I can read them.
66~As a site admin, I want to see the results for each trainer and averages for the class, so that I can identify any outliers or possible problems.
10~As a site visitor, I want to see a trainer's rating, so that I choose a course from an appropriate trainer.
4~As a trainer, I want to show my rating up on my profile page, so that site visitors can choose wisely.
316~As a site visitor, I want to view a section of the website that teaches me the basics of what Scrum is, so that I can learn that quickly.
8~As a site editor, I want to create the content of the What Is Scrum section, so that it's there for visitors.
2012~As a site visitor, I want to view lists on the site of all Certified Scrum Masters, Practitioners, Trainers, and Certified Scrum Product Owners.
42~As a CSM, I want to have my name listed in the registry without becoming a member of the site, so that employers or others can verify my certification.
16~As a trainer, I want to load an Excel file into the site, so that the course participants are added to the Scrum Alliance records.
36~As a site admin, I want to view all classes in a pending state, so that I can approve any that need to be approved.
336~As a site admin, I want to move people in a trainer's class from a pending state to the registry once I have received proof of payment from the trainer.
8748~As a CSM, I want to be sent an email welcoming me to the Scrum Alliance and with instructions to register or activate my membership once my name has been loaded to the registry.
220~As a site editor, I want to edit the content of the email automatically sent to new Certified Scrum Masters and Product Owners, so that I don't need to involve a programmer on simple email edits.
14~As a company, I want to join the Scrum Alliance by paying a corporate membership fee, so that I can show the company's support of Scrum.
7~As a corporate sponsor, I want to display my logo on a corporate sponsors page, so that others see the company's support of Scrum.
6~As a corporate sponsor, I want to make my logo randomly appear on the home page, so that others see the company's support of Scrum.
3~As a CSM, I want to be charged a fee once I am approved for Practitioner status, so that my certification status can be activated.
2~As a CST, I want to pay an annual fee, so that my CST status is active.
171~As a site administrator, I want to set the annual fees for members, Practitioners and Trainers, so that fees can be set without involving a programmer.
1~As a member, I want to receive a reminder and a link, so that I can renew my membership.
9~As a member, I want to have the system email me a new password or a password reminder since I have short term memory problems.
12~As a trainer, I want to read information of relevance only to trainers, so that the Scrum Alliance can share information with me easily.
2~As a site editor, I want to post information in a trainers only section, so that only trainers see it.
2~As a team member, I want to see the first iteration of beta up on cloud.gov.
4~As a developer, I want to have the subdomain beta.nsf.gov be set up, so that I can deploy a beta site to it.
6~As a stakeholder, I want to have a decision on whether or not the blog aggregator may work for beta, and if not what will.
17~As an NSF employee, I want to understand the process of switching the cloud.gov hosting plan over from prototype to FISMA low.
6~As a stakeholder, I want to see the results of user research, so that I can determine if the CMS is right for me.
34~As a designer, I want to have a new social media wireframe, so that I can begin implementing design.
48~As a team member, I want to have a prioritized list of features and elements of a future social element page, so that I can work with the engineers to determine feasibility.
4~As a team member, I want to determine a design direction for the beta social page, so that we can implement a beta site quickly without established brand guidelines.
473~As a user researcher, I want to test the user research plan, so that I make sure the in person interviews are effective and capturing the right information.
4~As a user researcher, I want to have the finalized OLPA task script, so that I can begin testing with internal users.
8~As a content editor, I want to be able to easily find content, so that I can edit it.
5~As a research participant, I want to make sure that the appearance of the prototype does not distract from the workflow, so that I can complete the user interview.
2~As a user researcher, I want to have the WIG prototype, so that I can finalize the second task script.
3~As a user, I want to add a video to my article.
12~As a team member, I want to meet with DIS or cloud.gov, so that I can determine the requirements for the beta.nsf.gov ATO.
21~As a user researcher, I want to have a list of priority workflow candidates that we might test, so that I can make sure we're capturing the priority areas.
40~As a team member, I want to understand what the MVP should look like, so that I can begin understanding workflow needs as they pertain to any CMS decision.
5~As an NSF administrator, I want to shadow the CMS implementation, so that I can learn as the prototype is developed further.
1~As a team member, I want to have an updated acquisitions roadmap, so that I can plan accordingly.
8~As an NSF employee, I want to have an updated roadmap document, so that I can see prioritized areas to focus on for the next few months and beyond.
32~As a team member, I want to understand how time off overlaps with plans around the user research.
8~As a researcher, I want to develop the user research protocol for internal workflows, so that we can begin testing against a CMS prototype.
1~As a CMS administrator, I want to have roles, so that I can assign them to my users.
78~As an NSF employee, I want to narrow down the universe of CMS options and identify or prioritize key considerations for getting to the next step.
40~As an NSF employee, I want to have a final workshop to identify key lessons and features for the content management system decision.
6~As a CMS SME, I want to see the webmaster workflow report, so that I can understand how this might impact current direction.
42~As an NSF employee, I want to understand work performed, so that I can understand when and what I can use later.
4~As a researcher, I want to recruit for the last round of user research, so that we can summarize our findings and synthesize results.
24~As a user researcher, I want to continue scheduling interviews for hypothesis #1, so that I can be prepared to test our first prototype.
186~As an NSF employee, I want to have high level strategy recommendations to implement in conjunction with the new CMS.
24~As an NSF employee, I want to have editorial planning recommendations, so that I can understand how they might impact an eventual CMS or future web presence.
2~As an NSF employee, I want to know how brand guidelines are developed and maintained, so that I can incorporate them throughout the project.
14~As a web recruiter manager, I want to confirm the recruiter is set up and working properly on Science360.gov.
84~As an NSF employee, I want to know how visual design directions were developed, so that I can make better design decisions in the future.
8~As a team member, I want to know what the first hypothesis is, so that I can start developing a prototype to test.
320~As a content designer, I want to develop a better understanding of NSF's content types and editorial plan, so that I can make more informed recommendations going forward.
3~As a team member, I want to have a prototype strategy, so that I understand how we will gain understandings from tests that will drive recommendations.
16~As a content designer, I want to demonstrate the value of user centered content design to ensure it's an integral part of our recommendations.
57~As a user researcher, I want to know when outreach to lists is successful, so that I can plan on a new release to the next listserv on the priority list.
30~As an NSF employee, I want to schedule regular in person check ins, so that we can continue to communicate the goals of the project with our stakeholders.
24~As a developer, I want to know what the three initial hypotheses are, so that I can plan work around development of prototypes.
774~As a workshop attendee, I want to have a summary of what we learned, so that I can understand our next steps and how they apply to me.
100~As a designer, I want to know what early indications of hypotheses might be, so that I can start planning for the first prototype.
308~As a team member, I want to have a schedule of more coworking slots, so that I can work in tandem with the rest of the team on a more regular basis.
416~As an NSF person interested in attending user interviews, I want to know when they are scheduled and the type of user that will be interviewed.
248~As an NSF member of the team, I want to have a place where I can access all the related reports and documentation, so that I can refer to it easily now and in the future.
22~As a team member, I want to know when the mid point checkin is and what will be covered, so that I can plan accordingly.
1~As an NSF employee, I want to join Github, so that I can participate in the issues as assigned.
2~As an NSF employee, I want to learn about how Github is used, so that I can participate in the issues as assigned.
80~As a user researcher, I want to begin identifying interview participants, so that I can understand what educators and science influencers need from a future nsf.gov website.
4~As a VisualDesigner, I want to concept different styles for the nsf.gov website, so that we can discuss different design concepts with stakeholders.
36~As a user researcher, I want to set up a website recruitment test, so that I can see if we can recruit users in real time from the website.
12~As a web recruiter manager, I want to confirm the recruiter is set up and working properly, so that I can deploy it on more pages.
98~As a VisualDesigner, I want to create a moodboard to aid with visual design concepts for the nsf.gov website, so that we can discuss different design concepts with stakeholders.
42~As a workshop attendee, I want to see a summary on major findings from the event.
6~As a user researcher, I want to make sure the correct NSF people are invited to user interviews, so that they can observe the interviews and make recommendations accordingly.
4~As a user researcher, I want to begin drafting a research plan, so that I can begin recruiting participants.
20~As a content editor, I want to be able to add videos from Brightcove.
21~As an author, I want to be able to indent or outdent content.
13~As a VisualDesigner, I want to demonstrate the value of visual design to the NSF project team, so that visual design is an integral part of a redesign.
11892~As a team member, I want to know what visual design related tasks we might need to plan for this sprint, so that I can assign tasks as necessary.
608~As a team member, I want to have recruiting email templates ready to go, so that I can start recruiting interviewees ASAP!.
6~As an NSF employee, I want to see how the user recruitment form looks and behaves on a sample page, so that I can understand the impact the recruitment will have on the NSF page.
16~As a potential research participant, I want to learn about the research and leave my contact information.
49~As a team member, I want to have a high level sense of the project timeline, so that I can plan my work.
120~As a site administrator, I want to understand how other similar organizations are handling visual design, so that I can make informed decisions about what appears to work well and what doesn't.
14~As a team member, I want to have a platform that allows me to rapidly prototype HTML ideas.
440~As a site administrator, I want to understand how other similar organizations are handling content, so that I can make informed decisions about what appears to work well and what doesn't.
8~As a user researcher, I want to conduct a user definition workshop with NSF, so that I can better prepare them and the team for future research work.
12~As an NSF employee, I want to know where the initial in person meeting will be, so that I can plan on attending.
48~As a designer, I want to have a style guide or design guide or content guide, so that we have a uniform way of delivering product.
4~As a team member, I want to know when meetings are, so that I can plan accordingly.
220~As a team member, I want to understand how work moves between UX or content to visual design to front end dev for a sprint cycle.
16~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to add campers, so that I can keep track of each individual camper.
240~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to remove campers if they don't attend the camp anymore, so that I can keep the records organized.
54~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to keep camper records from previous years, so that the amount of work I need to do is lowered.
84~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to upload consent forms, so that campers or their parents can easily access the forms.
726~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to keep track of which camper submitted which forms, so that legal issues are avoided.
222~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to schedule activities for campers, so that camp workers can easily keep track of who is where at all times.
54~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to automatically create nametags for campers, so that I can lower the amount of work I need to do.
6~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to suspend a camper who had behavioral problems.
904~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to set a reminders related to specific tasks that has to be done.
476~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to assign different positions to the staff members, so that it is possible to organize activities in terms of responsibilities.
1916~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to warn a camp worker who I think did his or her job inappropriate.
2022~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to create, modify rules that campers and camp workers has to follow.
32~As a camp administrator, I want to keep track of the usage of internal camp facilities, so that I don't create conflicting schedules for the different camp groups.
6~As a camp administrator, I want to create an avenue so parents can submit feedback and general concerns, so that I can keep improving the services I provide.
4~As a camp administrator, I want to store campers' emergency information in a database, so that I can easily notify the necessary parties in case of an emergency.
8~As a camp administrator, I want to store camper's immediate parent or guardian's information, so that I can easily call to notify them in case a grossly unacceptable behavior.
92~As a camp administrator, I want to provide bi weekly feedback to camper's parents, so that they can be aware of their child's behavior and performance at camp.
1280~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to make nametags faster, so that I don't have to spend two hours making 200+ nametags
36~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to create a registration form for both staff and kids, so that I can keep organized.
72~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to keep my information in one place, so that the admins next year can improve on the previous years.
16~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to see medical forms, so that we can be prepared for an allergy attack
20~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to notify parents all at once, so that they can be notified of any upcoming events.
376~As a camp administrator, I want to be quickly log attendance everyday, so that I can track which kids are coming in.
16~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to add parents, so that they can enroll their kids at camp.
52~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to create groups and add campers to the groups, so that I can easily organize the campers.
14616~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to see all my camp groups and the events scheduled for each camp group, so that I can notify counselor of what their group will be doing for the day.
8176~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to schedule tasks or activities for a specific camp group, so that I can track each groups daily or weekly and monthly activities.
372~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to delete tasks or activities I scheduled, so that I can keep the schedule clean of unneeded activities.
228~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to modify tasks or events I scheduled in case there is a change, so that I can always keep the schedule up to date.
24~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to modify the information of enrolled campers, so that I can keep the campers information up to date.
54~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to delete campers from the database, so that I can keep my pages free of clutter.
24~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to modify the information of added parents, so that I can keep parent's information up to date.
54~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to delete parents from the database, so that I can keep my pages free of unneeded clutter.
24~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to modify a group's information, so that I can keep the groups up to date.
360~As a camp administrator, I want to be able to see only events for a specific group or groups on the event calendar, so that I can easily read the data on the calendar without too much clutter.
384~As a parent, I want to be able to see which consent forms I have submitted, so that I can know what I still need to do.
22~As a parent, I want to be able to track my child's activity and schedule at camp, so that I can have peace of mind.
20~As a parent, I want to be able to submit various type of forms to the camp management.
40~As a parent, I want to be able to create an account, so that I can sign up my kids for camp online.
3~As a parent, I want to see which counselors are assigned to my kids, so that I can have peace of mind.
34~As a parent, I want to be able to message my child's counselors, so that I can voice my concerns or check on my child's progress.
2233~As a parent, I want to be able to sign and submit consent forms online, so that I don't have to deal with my child losing a consent form.
30~As a parent, I want to be able to see if I made all the necessary payments.
24~As a parent, I want to be able to share any photos the camp has taken of my child.
9~As a parent, I want to be able to connect with the staff in case of an emergency.
4~As a parent, I want to be able to enroll my children, so that they can be admitted to camp.
3464~As a parent, I want to be able to see and edit my enrolled children to the camp year, so that I can know who I already enrolled to camp, who is still pending admission etc.
32602~As a parent, I want to be able to see a schedule of the activities my children are involved in at camp, so that I can be more informed as to what they are doing at camp.
34~As a camp worker, I want to be able to see which campers I am in charge of and where, so that I can make sure I am doing my job properly.
28~As a camp worker, I would be able to submit a completion report for the tasks which was assigned to me.
28~As a camp worker, I'm able to report a camper to the manager with an inappropriate behavior.
36~As a camp worker, I'm able to report a list of supplies to the manager that the camp is short of.
46~As a camp worker, I'm able to report necessary repairs to the manager that the camp is needed of.
34~As a camp worker, I want to be able to see which campers I am in charge of and where, so that I can make sure I am doing my job properly.
20~As a camp counselor, I want to be able to take attendance of my assigned kids, so that I can make ensure everybody is accounted for.
15~As a moderator, I want to create a new game by entering a name and an optional description, so that I can start inviting estimators.
48~As a moderator, I want to invite estimators by giving them a URL where they can access the game, so that we can start the game.
26~As a moderator, I want to start a round by entering an item in a single multi line text field, so that we can estimate it.
188~As a moderator, I want to see all items we try to estimate this session, so that I can answer questions about the current story such as "does this include ___".
64~As a moderator, I want to select an item to be estimated or re estimated, so that the team sees that item and can estimate it.
1780~As a moderator, I want to add an item to the list of items to be estimated, so that so that we can be flexible and accommodate situations where we think of a new story while playing.
318~As a moderator, I want to edit an item in the list of items to be estimated, so that I can make it better reflect the team's understanding of the item.
68~As a moderator, I want to delete an item from the list of items to be estimated, so that we can remove it and not estimate it.
228~As a moderator, I want to show all estimates immediately, so that I can decide to show the estimates that have been given even though not all estimators have given their estimate.
1~As a moderator, I want to accept the average of all estimates, so that we can move on to the next item when we agree.
146~As a moderator, I want to have the "estimate" field filled in automatically if all estimators show the same card, so that I can accept it more quickly.
1~As a moderator, I want to enter the agreed upon estimate, so that we can move on to the next item when we agree.
45~As a moderator, I want to estimate a story we estimated earlier in the session again, so that we can give a new estimate if we feel different about the story after estimating other related stories.
8~As a moderator, I want to import stories from a spreadsheet, so that I don't have to copy and paste each individual story.
4~As a moderator, I want to copy or paste stories from a spreadsheet, so that I can get started more quickly.
4~As a moderator, I want to browse through previous games, so that I can find the previous game I'm looking for.
2~As a moderator, I want to view a transcript of a game, so that I can see the stories and estimates.
6~As a moderator, I want to export a transcript of a game as a HTML file, so that I can save the stories and estimates locally.
6~As a moderator, I want to export a transcript of a game as a CSV file, so that I can further process the stories and estimates.
8~As a moderator, I want to delete a game, so that stories and estimates for this game are no longer stored.
2065~As a moderator, I want to create an account for the application by entering my name, email address, a password and a username, so that I can start using the application.
10~As a moderator, I want to log in using my account name and password, so that I can start using the application.
3~As a moderator, I want to change my account details, so that I can keep my account details up to date.
4~As a moderator, I want to delete my account, so that account information and games are no longer stored.
290~As a moderator, I want to see dates and times in my local timezone, so that I don't have to do timezone conversion myself.
6~As a moderator, I want to get a password reminder by email, so that I can get back to using the application when I've forgotten my password.
102094840~As a moderator, I want to select whether to have the team estimate with {0, 1 or 2, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, etc.} or {0, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, etc.}, so that the team can use either the modified Fibonacci sequence or powers of 2.
2~As a moderator, I want to invite up to 15 estimators, so that we can play with large but not immense teams.
36~As an estimator, I want to join a game by entering my name on the page I received the URL for, so that I can participate.
6~As an estimator, I want to see the item we're estimating, so that I know what I'm giving an estimate for.
204~As an estimator, I want to see all items we will try to estimate this session, so that I have a feel for the sizes of the various items.
4~As a participant, I want to immediately see that an estimate has been given by a specific estimator, so that I know who has already given an estimate and who we're still waiting for.
1884~As a participant, I want to be shown all estimates at the same time after all estimators have given their estimate, so that I can be sure estimates are independent and not influenced by other estimates given in the same draw.
145~As a participant, I want to be able to change my estimate up until the last person selects a card and all are shown, so that I can change my mind based on information I hear.
84102~As a participant, I want to be able to see each estimator's prior estimates for the story being estimated, so that I can see how his or her opinion has changed so I can ask questions.
15~As a participant, I want to see who gave what estimates during the current round, so that I know this when we're discussing the estimates.
116~As a participant, I want to be able start a two minute countdown timer that all participants can see, so that I can limit the time spent discussing the estimates when I think we've talked long enough.
252~As a participant, I want to have the two minute timer reset itself as soon as we all play an estimate, so that it's ready for use on the next round.
120~As a participant, I want to scroll back through the stories and estimates from prior rounds, so that I can use this information when I estimate the item of the current round.
80~As a participant, I want to always have the cards in the same order across multiple draws, so that it's easy to compare estimates.
42~As a participant, I want to change my estimate as long as the draw has not been completed, so that I can change my mind.
96~As a participant, I want to have a small thumbnail photo displayed near where my cards are played, so that the game is more personal because I see who I'm estimating with.
125656~As a developer, I want to have written a site which is compliant with XHTML and CSS standards, so that as many people as possible can access the site and view it as intended.
18~As a developer, I want to have a list of definitions for commonly used terms, so that everyone working on the project can understand each other more easily.
2~As a developer, I want to have created database indexes, so that the queries run as fast as possible.
75898~As a developer, I want to have the application function correctly in Internet Explorer 6 and 7, Firefox 1.5 and 2, and Safari 2, so that as many people as possible can fully use the application.
50~As a developer, I want to have the site comply with the W3C accessibility guidelines where possible, so that people with accessibility issues can use the application.
2~As a user, I want to have the application respond quickly to my actions, so that I don't get bored.
5~As a user, I want to be able to use Unicode, so that I can use any language I like.
1~As a user, I want to see sensible and predictable URLs, so that the application feels logical and transparent.
6~As a user, I want to have nice error pages when something goes wrong, so that I can trust the system and its developers.
14256~As a Researcher, I want results to be stored in a non identifiable way, so that I can study the data to see things like whether estimates converged around the first opinion given by "estimator A" for example.
288~As a Mike, I want to be able to see some metrics on use of the game, so that I can see how much it is being used.
6~As a Publisher, I want to publish a dataset, so that I can view just the dataset with a few people.
1~As a Publisher, I want to publish a dataset, so that I can share the dataset publicly with everyone.
24~As a Publisher, I want to sign up for an account, so that that I can publish my data package to the registry and to have a publisher account to publish my data package under.
288~As a Visitor, I want to sign up via github or google, so that that I don't have to enter lots of information and remember my password for yet another website.
6~As a Publisher, I want to know what do next after signing up, so that that I can get going quickly.
156~As an Admin, I want to invite someone to join the platform, so that that they can start contributing or using data.
12~As a Publisher, I want to import my data package into the registry, so that my data has a permanent online home to access.
8~As a Publisher, I want to configure my client, so that I can start publishing data packages.
440~As a Publisher, I want to use a publish command to update a data package that is already in the registry, so that it appears there.
4~As a Publisher, I want to unpublish a data package, so that it is no longer visible to anyone.
24~As a Publisher, I want to permanently delete a data package, so that that it no longer takes up storage space.
256~As a Publisher, I want to validate the data I am about to publish to the registry, so that that I publish good data and know that I am doing.
304~As a Publisher, I want to data to be validated when I publish it, so that that I know immediately if I have accidentally broken my data or have bugs and can take action to correct.
3042~As a Consumer, I want to know that the data I am downloading is good and can be relied on, so that that I don't have to check it myself or run into annoying bugs later on.
56~As a Publisher, I want to publish a data package where its resource data is stored on my servers but the registry caches a copy of that data, so that that if my data is lost or gets broken I still have a copy people can use.
69472~As a Consumer, I want to be able to get the data for a data package even if the original data has been moved or removed, so that that I can still use is and my app or analysis keeps working.
40~As a Publisher, I want to publish a data package in the UI, so that that it is available and published.
8~As a Publisher, I want to create a data package in the UI so that it is available and published.
270~As a Publisher, I want to be able to restore the deleted data package via cli, so that that it is back visible and available to view, download.
262~As a Publisher, I want to undelete the deleted data packages, so that that the deleted data packages is now visible again.
18936~As a Publisher, I want to be able to preview the views of the current data package using cli prior to publishing, so that that I can refine the json declarations of datapackage view section to achieve a great looking result.
12~As a Consumer, I want to view a data package online, so that I can get a sense of whether this is the dataset I want.
1~As a publisher, I want to show the world how my published data is, so that that it immediately catches consumer's attention.
24~As a consumer, I want to view the data package, so that that I can get a sense of whether I want this dataset or not.
180~As a Publisher, I want to preview a datapackage I have prepared, so that that I can check it works and share the results.
270~As a Consumer, I want to see how much the data has been downloaded, so that that I can choose most popular in the case when there are several alternatives for my use case.
21~As a Publisher, I want to see real examples of published packages so that I can understand how useful and simple the datapackage format and the registry is.
4640~As a Consumer, I want to see some example data packages quickly, so that I get a sense of what is on this site and if it is useful to look further.
6~As a Consumer, I want to search data packages, so that that I can find the ones I want.
12~As a Consumer, I want to search based on description of data package, so that that I can find package which related to some key words.
24~As a Consumer, I want to download the data package in one file, so that that I don't have to download descriptor and each resource by hand.
63~As a Developer, I want to use data package as a node lib in my project, so that that I can depend on it using my normal dependency framework.
9~As a Consumer, I want to load a Data Package from R, so that that I can immediately start playing with it.
60~As a Data Analyst I want to download a data package, so that that I can study it and wrangle with it to infer new data or generate new insights.
216~As a Data Analyst, I want to update previously downloaded data package, so that that I can work with the most recent data.
42~As a Consumer, I want to download a DataPackage's data one coherent SQLite database, so that that I can get it easily in one form.
90~As a Data Analyst, I want to compare different versions of some datapackage locally, so that that I can see schema changes clearly and adjust my analytics code to the desired schema version.
184~As a Web Developer, I want to be able to install multiple versions of the same datapackage separately, so that that all my projects could be developed independently and deployed locally.
2432~As a Developer, I want to list all DataPackages requirements for my project in the file and pin the exact versions of any DataPackage that my project depends on, so that that the project can be deterministically deployed locally and won't break because of the DataPackage schema changes.
96~As a Publisher, I want to tag datapackage to create a snapshot of data on the registry server, so that that consumers can refer to it.
1176~As a Publisher, I want to be warned that a tag exists when I try to overwrite it, so that that I don't accidentally overwrite stable tagged data which is relied on by consumers.
12~As a Publisher, I want to be able to overwrite the previously tagged datapackage, so that that I can fix it if I mess up.
56~As a Publisher, I want to version my Data Package and keep multiple versions around including older versions, so that that I do not break consumer systems when I change my datapackage.
506~As a Publisher, I want to be able to get access to a previous version I tagged, so that that I can return to it and review it.
42~As a Consumer, I want to know full details of how the data package schema has changed, so that that I can adjust my scripts to handle it.
456~As a Consumer, I want to get a sense of the age of the datapackage that I have downloaded before, so that that I can decide if I should update or not.
324~As a Consumer, I want to view a Datapackage at a particular version online, so that that I can present or discuss the particular data timeslice of interest with other people.
70~As a Consumer, I want to download a Data package at a particular version, so that that I know it is compatible with my scripts and system.
39~As a Consumer, I want to be notified of changes to a package I care about, so that that I can check out what has changed and take action.
2~As a Consumer, I want to see how active the site is, so that I can decide if I should get involved.
27~As a Consumer, I want to browse and find publishers, so that that I can find interesting publishers and their packages.
3737~As a Consumer, I want to see a publisher's profile, so that that I can discover their packages and get a sense of how active and good they are.
80~As a Consumer, I want to view a publisher's profile, so that that I can see who is behind a particular package or to see what other packages they produce.
11700~As a Consumer, I want to search among all data packages owned by a publisher, so that that I can easily find one data package amongst all the data packages by this publisher.
5~As an Owner, I want to edit my profile, so that that it is updated with new information.
2~As an Owner, I want to invite an existing user, so that the user can become a member of my publisher.
2060~As an owner, I want to invite someone using their email to sign up and become a member of my Publisher, so that that they are authorized to publish data packages under my Publisher.
40~As an owner, I want to remove someone from membership in my publisher, so that they no longer have ability to publish or modify my data packages.
1106~As an owner, I want to view all the people in my organization and what roles they have, so that that I can change these if I want.
1~As an owner, I want to make a user an owner, so that they have full control.
2~As an owner, I want to remove a user as an owner, so that they are just a member and no longer have full control.
12~As an Admin, I want to set key configuration parameters for my site deployment, so that that I can change key information like the site title.
60~As an Admin, I want to see key metrics about usage such as users, API usage, downloads, so that that I know how things are going.
136~As an Admin, I want to have a pricing plan and billing system, so that that I can charge users and make my platform sustainable.
1320~As a Publisher, I want to know if this site has a pricing plan and what the prices are, so that that I can work out what this will cost me in the future and have a sense that these guys are sustainable.
4~As a Publisher, I want to sign up for a given pricing plan, so that that I am entitled to what it allows.
76~As a Publisher, I want to have private data packages, so that I can share just with my team.
508~As a collection curator, I want to set a date after which data will expire and be deleted or hidden then deleted.
7~As a collection curator, I want to see the scheduled records deletion date be displayed on the item and component pages.
36~As a repository manager, I want to track who is financially responsible for each item in the repository, who should probably be a person contact including name, phone, email, maybe title and address.
44~As a repository manager, I want to be able t run a report periodically showing the storage consumed by each financial contact.
8~As a collection curator, I want to map an item or items from one collection to another, so that an item may administratively belong to one collection but could appear in other collections.
67~As a faculty member, I want to add a date delimiter to a search string, so that I can limit a search to return only results from before, after, or between a given date or dates.
7~As a developer, I want to determine if we can use the in built Fedora 4 event audit services.
3010~As a DPC, I want events to be created when a publication is published and unpublished, who did it, comment, so that I can record when and why something was made unavailable.
4~As a repository manager, I want to specify the remote replication policy for each collection.
4~As a repository manager, I want to elect to either replicate remotely or not and possibly to replicate beyond the primary remote site.
394~As a collection curator, I want to have the repository queue my collection for replication upon ingest to our remote storage site and to display the remote replication status in each item and component page in the staff interface.
75~As a collection curator, I want to have a summary of all remote replication status at collection level on my dashboard.
196~As a collection curator, I want to have my collection be encrypted with a key maintained on that server, a checksum made and stored of the encrypted file, and the encrypted file replicated to our remote storage site.
6~As a collection curator, I want to lift an embargo for an object in a simple way.
3860~As a repoadmin, I want to have Symplectic Elements bidirectionally communicate and integrate with DDR, which provide a Fedora Connector and Emory is using a hidden Fedora instance that Hydra collects objects for.
5~As a collection curator, I want to have items be made available under the permissions they were configured once the embargo date has been reached.
3~As a collection curator, I want to create deposit forms specific to the collection.
3~As a collection curator, I want to allow some collections the option of setting an embargo date at deposit.
8~As a collection curator, I want to have item metadata to be discoverable while the item is under embargo.
3343~As a collection curator, I want to have the item to be allowed under the access permissions set on the object after the embargo data is reached.
2926~As a repoadmin, I want to have users to be presented with a license or a selection of licenses, specific to the collection, and deposit to be denied if the submitter does not accept the license.
6~As a repoadmin, I want to have the license be recorded in metadata and displayed alongside the item.
10~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to have a method to batch ingest ETDs we receive from ProQuest.
430~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to have the batch ingest tool to recognize and set embargoes, permissions for embargoed items should be allow everyone to view metadata, and collection curator and repository administrators to download the files.
5256~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to have the repository to lift embargoes on the release date and set the access controls to the configuration set on item on that date.
29~As a visitor, I want to see the embargo status and release date clearly displayed and perhaps highlighted in some way.
100~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to have a method to add and remove multiple people to deposit groups in specific collections, to set a date that the deposit window closes, and to have these permissions conferred on these depositors should pick up on the collection's default permission.
1~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to edit the length of embargoes.
46~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to expose the descriptive record for each ETD item for re use external to Fedora.
2~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to grant embargo privileges to other repository administrators.
71~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to have a method to add and remove individual people from deposit groups.
7~As a collection curator, I want to have a tool to perform author authority control.
7~As a collection curator, I want to move items from one collection to another.
12~As a repoadmin, I want to expose repository contents via OAI PMH Auditing & Reporting.
8~As a DigitalRecords Archivist, I want to view and download summary embargo metadata for all ETDs in the repository.
256~As a batch submitter, I want to provide my data and metadata in a simple, documented format to the repository staff for ingest.
9~As repository manager, I want to view authenticated, active users and anonymous users.
2524~As a repository manager, I want to schedule a message to users to be displayed on each page on the repository between select times for things like notification of upcoming downtime.
44~As a repository manager, I want to see a display of recent errors deduplicated for easy comprehension like Symplectic Elements provides.
38256~As a repository manager, I want to view a dashboard statistics about collections size including a list of collections, the number of items and components in each, total storage consumed by each collection, visualization of deposit activity.
52~As a collection curator, I want to see a dashboard widget showing a summary of recent submissions to my collection.
67~As a repoadmin, I want to continue to provide access to the repository in the event that the server fails.
6~As a repoadmin, I want to provide the server SLA to data contributors.
30~As a repoadmin, I want to update the repository index without disrupting access to the public interface.
6~As a repoadmin, I want to provide a Linked Data interface to the repository.
4~As a repoadmin, I want to have Symplectic Elements to communicate bidirectionally with the repository.
4~As a developer, I want to upgrade to Fedora 4 and migrate our applications and data.
276~As a collection curator, I want to have metadata changes made to items with repository assigned DOIs to be propagated to the EZID.
276~As a collection curator, I want to canonically identify authors and creators of my items by unique identifier, so that it's easier to view all of the works by that person together.
78~As a collection curator, I want to see the referers for visitors who use resolver abstracted links to reach my items.
80~As a data contributor, I want to refer to the Disaster Recovery Plan in grant proposals and Data Management Plans.
86~As a depositor, I want to get feedback post ingest alerting me if files I submitted do not conform to their format specifications, if they are not valid, or if they are not wellformed.
16~As a batch submitter, I want to access documentation describing the folder ingest process.
53~As a depositor, I want to see what kinds of things the repository accepts and what formats are accepted and recommended.
446~As a depositor, I want to easily find information about which data can be assigned a DOI, how to get one, and what metadata are required.
22~As a collection curator, I want to create groups of users to manage permissions in the repository in an easy way.
106~As a collection curator, I want to restrict access to my collection or items to Duke IP addresses.
46~As a collection curator, I want users to contact me directly from the repository to request access to restricted objects.
244~As a collection owner, I want to have submitters to my collection to be unable to modify existing items in that collection.
1~As a superuser, I want to enter and exit the superuser scope.
3~As a collection curator I want to change permissions on one or more items simultaneously.
117~As a collection curator, I want to be able require authentication to access objects unless the request is coming from a whitelisted IP address, list of addresses.
11~As a repository manager, I want to view available versions of an object and restore a version from the staff interface.
3~As a collection curator, I want to view the permission on my objects all together.
77~As a non Duke researcher, I want to describe my team and mine's objects in the repository after they've been deposited if we've been assigned permission to edit metadata.
99999~As a faculty member, I want to go to my repository dashboard to manage members of my classes, grant submit permissions by pasting in a list of NetIDs, see confirmation that DDR recognizes the NetIDs, ability to manually remove permissions, ability to set begin and end dates for a submission window, and a have a status screen to clearly illustrate who has and hasn't submitted.
8~As an app developer, I want to include the code of a dataset type in my app artifact and create a dataset of that type when deploying the app.
76977~As an app developer, I want to deploy a new version of a dataset type as part of deploying a new version of the app that includes it and I expect that all dataset instances of that type that were created as part of the app deployment start using the new code.
14~As an app developer, I want to deploy a new version of a dataset type as part of an app artifact, without affecting other datasets of this type.
46~As an app developer, I want to explore a dataset instance of a type that was deployed as part of an app.
78~As an app developer, I want to ensure that when I deploy an artifact without creating an app this will not create any dataset types or instances.
22~As an app developer, I want to share a dataset type across multiple applications that include the dataset type's code in their artifacts.
280404~As an app developer, I want to ensure that when I deploy a new version of an app that includes a shared dataset type that all dataset instances created by this app start using the new code but all dataset instances created by other apps remain unchanged.
779359~As an app developer, I want to ensure that when I deploy a new version of an app that includes an older version of a dataset type deployed by another app and I expect that the dataset instances created by this app use the dataset type code included in this app.
260054~As an app developer, I want to ensure that when I deploy a new version of an app that includes a different version of a dataset type deployed by another app and this app shares a dataset instance of this type with the other app the deployment will fail with a version conflict error.
25~As an app developer, I want to share a dataset type that I had previously deployed as part of an app.
2295~As a dataset developer, I want to deploy a dataset type independent from any app and allow apps to create and use dataset instances of that type.
329~As a dataset developer, I want to have the option of forcing applications to have the dataset code injected at runtime.
5~As a dataset developer, I want to have an archetype that helps me package my dataset type properly.
5~As a dataset developer, I want to separate the interface from the implementation of a dataset type.
18~As an app developer, I want to only depend on the interface of a dataset type in my app and have the system inject the implementation at runtime.
33~As an app developer, I want to write unit tests for an app that depends on the interface of a dataset type.
3~As a dataset developer, I want to assign explicit versions to the code of a dataset type.
14~As a dataset developer, I want to deploy a new version of a dataset type without affecting the dataset instances of that type.
3~As an app developer, I want to create a dataset instance with a specific version of a dataset type.
114~As a dataset developer, I want to explore a dataset instance created from a dataset type that was deployed by itself.
310~As a dataset developer, I want to delete outdated versions of a dataset type and I expect this to fail if there are any dataset instances with that version of the type.
30~As a dataset developer, I want to list all dataset instances that use a dataset type or a specific version of a type.
120~As a data scientist, I want to be able to create a dataset instance of an existing dataset type without writing code.
20~As a data scientist, I want to be able to upgrade a dataset instance to a new version of its code.
12~As a hydrator user, I want to create a pipeline that reads or writes an existing dataset instance.
322~As a hydrator user, I want to create a pipeline that reads or writes a new dataset instance and I want to create that dataset instance as part of pipeline creation.
8556~As a hydrator user, I want to specify an explicit version of the dataset types of the dataset instances created by my pipeline and I expect pipeline creation to fail if that results in incompatible upgrade of an existing dataset instance that is shared with other apps or pipelines.
5~As a hydrator user, I want to explore the datasets created by my pipeline.
37~As a hydrator user, I want to ensure that all dataset instances created by apps are available as sinks and sources for pipelines.
27~As an app developer, I want to ensure that all dataset instances created by Hydrator pipelines are accessible to the app.
160~As a plugin developer, I want to include the code for a dataset type in the plugin artifact, so that when a pipeline using this plugin is created a dataset instance of that type is created and it is explorable and available to apps.
127~As a plugin developer, I want to use a custom dataset type that was deployed independently or as part of an app inside the plugin.
5627~As a plugin developer, I want to upgrade the code of a dataset type used by a dataset instance created by that plugin when I deploy a new version of the plugin and update the pipeline to use that version.
3~As a pipeline developer, I want to upgrade a dataset instance to a newer version of the code after the pipeline was created.
20~As a dataset developer, I want to have the option of implementing an upgrade step for when a dataset instance is upgraded to a new version of the dataset type.
91~As a dataset developer, I want to have a way to reject an upgrade of a dataset instance to a newer version of it type if the upgrade is not compatible.
468~As a dataset developer, I want to have the option of implementing a migration procedure that can be run after an upgrade of a dataset instance to a new version of it type.
9~As a developer, I want to take a dataset offline, so that I can perform a long running maintenance or migration procedure.
166~As a dataset developer, I want to implement custom administrative operations such as "compaction" or "rebalance" that are no common to all dataset types.
2470~As an app developer, I want to perform custom administrative operations on dataset instances from my app and the CLI and REST or the UI.
36~As a user, I want to find out what properties are supported by the dataset type what values are allowed and what the defaults are when creating a dataset instance.
76~As a user, I want to specify the schema of a dataset in a uniform way across all dataset types.
1~As a user, I want to specify schema as a JSON string.
2~As a user, I want to specify schema as a SQL schema string.
140~As a user, I want to configure time to live in a uniform way across all dataset types.
28~As a user, I want to see the properties that were used to configure a dataset instance.
2~As a user, I want to find out what properties of a dataset can be updated.
21~As a user, I want to update the properties of a dataset instance and I expect this to fail if the new properties are not compatible with a meaningful error message.
8~As a user, I want to update a single property of a dataset instance without knowing all other properties.
8~As a user, I want to remove a single property of a dataset instance without knowing all other properties.
2~As a user, I want to trigger a migration process for a dataset if updating its properties requires that.
80~As a user, I want to ensure that if reconfiguration of a dataset fails then no changes have taken effect, so that all steps required to reconfigure a dataset must be done as a single atomic action.
9~As an app developer, I want to ensure that application creation fails if any of its datasets cannot be created.
13~As an app developer, I want to ensure that application redeployment fails if any of its datasets cannot be reconfigured.
136~As an app developer, I want to tolerate existing datasets if their properties are different but compatible when creating a dataset as part of app deployment.
516~As a pipeline designer, I want to get a meaningful error message when pipeline creation fails when I use an existing dataset as a sink or source, so that I know that the schema or any other property of the dataset is incompatible with what the pipeline requires.
4~As a user, I want to specify as part of dataset configuration whether it is explorable.
1~As a user, I want to specify the explore schema separately.
4~As a user, I want to ensure that dataset creation fails if the dataset cannot be enabled for explore.
30~As a user, I want to ensure that dataset reconfiguration fails if the corresponding update of the explore table fails.
38~As a user, I want to ensure that a dataset operation fails if it fails to make its required changes to explore.
1338~As a user, I want to ensure that an update of explore never leads to silent loss of data or data available for explore.
1~As a user, I want to enable explore for a dataset that was not configured for explore initially.
1~As a user, I want to disable explore for a dataset that was configured for explore initially.
24~As a system administrator, I want to run a script that installs the Neurohub node onto a virgin Ubuntu operating system.
80~As a system administrator, I want to run a script that tests to see if a Neurohub installation is functioning correctly.
40~As a release engineer, I want to call a script to execute acceptance tests against a Neurohub installation and report back the results.
1~As an investigator, I want to view the acceptance test results, so that I can understand how feature complete the Neurohub node currently is.
12~As an MRI operator, I want to digitally record the responses that subjects make when completing paper based forms.
1186~As a user, I want to navigate forwards and backwards between log books and log book pages without having to use my browser's back button.
4~As a lab administrator, I want to theme the Web interface graphics or colours.
14~As a systems administrator, I want to install Neurohub dependencies into an Ubuntu 10.04 LTS machine using the normal Ubuntu package management tools.
12~As a researcher, I want to create a log book page for an experiment and attach a file to this page.
20~As a researcher, I want to create a log book page for an experiment and attach a directory that contains multiple files.
35~As a researcher, I want to upload files prior to having them attached to a log book page.
72~As a researcher, I want to upload files prior to having them attached to a log book page using the web interface.
72~As a researcher, I want to upload files prior to having them attached to a log book page using a mapped network drive.
4~As a researcher, I want to attach currently non attached files to a log book page.
21~As a researcher, I want to receive an alert of any unattached files that are in my workspace.
17~As a researcher, I want to download files attached to an experiment using my Web browser.
137~As a researcher, I want to access files stored in my Neurohub workspace, using a network drive attached to my workstation.
1~As a researcher, I want to create a log book page.
25724~As a release engineer, I want to configure nightly builds that automatically perform a Neurohub installation on a virgin operating system, execute tests and report back results, without requiring any manual input or interaction.
9~As a supervisor, I want to view what my researchers were doing on a given date or period of time.
20~As a user, I want to upload large files of over 1GB in size.
10~As a user, I want to assign tags to files that I have uploaded.
37~As a user, I want to assign bespoke information to a file dependent on its type.
34~As a user, I want to filter the files I get from search results based on their type.
1~As a user, I want to use the tags that I use are part of a controlled vocabulary.
48~As a user, I want to make uploaded data files to be non modifiable.
2~As a user, I want to make predicated links between files.
2~As a user, I want to restrict what can be entered to a metadata field.
15~As a user, I want to have files I might accidentally delete to be restorable.
1~As a user, I want to revert to an older version of an uploaded file.
210~As a user, I want to have a visual way of viewing particular files uploaded over a time period.
7~As a user, I want to associate together files involved in a experiment.
4~As a system administrator, I want to have a managed backup protocol for the system.
43~As a user, I want to enter metadata or describe an experiment protocol before a file is even created.
48~As lab administrator, I want to have increased access to the system to support regular users.
18~As a user, I want to link together experimental runs to build an experiment.
22~As a lab administrator, I want to create page templates with bespoke metadata fields.
91~As a user, I want to capture the same metadata for each file created in an experimental run.
109~As a lab administrator, I want a way of managing worm strain stocks that is integrated with Wormbase.
8~As a user, I want to search for and download human readable experimental protocols.
6~As a user, I want to modify or branch an experimental protocol, whilst retaining the original.
1~As a user, I want to view how an experimental protocol has evolved over time.
6~As a user, I want to create a protocol and assign metadata to any stag.
2~As a user, I want to prove definitively that I created a page on a certain date.
16~As a user, I want to manage the references or papers I have investigated.
7~As a user, I want to search specifically for files rather than log book pages.
13~As a user, I want to limit my search to a particular set of log books.
390~As a user, I want to limit my search results to one or more log book sections from one or more log books.
2~As a user, I want to download files directly from the search results page.
8~As a user, I want to see the provenance of the page as part of the search results.
2~As a user, I want to attach multiple files at once to a log book page.
44~As a user, I want to download multiple files from the search results in one go.
100~As a user, I want to draw tables using HTML tags as part of the content of a log book page.
16~As a lab member, I want to view events and equipment bookings within the group.
446~As a user, I want to store worm behaviour videos with an encoding that can be analysed by the worm analysis software written by Christopher James.
12~As a system administrator, I want to migrate data from an older version of NeuroHub to the current version.
9~As a user, I want to have the system to also forward important news items to an external mailing list.
128~As a user, I want to view and update an inventory of of the equipment and consumables that are present in the centre.
36~As a user, I want to have a spreadsheet hosted within the Neurohub Web page, so that I can edit and calculate costs collaboratively with others while working on the proposal.
9905~As a supervisor, I want to create feedback forms within Neurohub, that my students can fill in and submit, in order to provide me with feedback about the course that they attended.
394~As a user, I want to have the option to tell Neurohub to push posted content to my Twitter feed at the same time.
19~As a user, I want to either keep a logbook entry private or share it with individuals rather than groups.
35~As a user, I want to have the details of the workflow execution to be recorded in a neurohub log book while executing a workflow.
32~As a user, I want to have that my Twitter Tweets to appear in Neurohub, so that other researchers in the centre can see what I am up to.
16~As a user, I want to view the group's shared calendars via the Neurohub Nodes' Web page as well as on my mobile device.
20~As a user, I want to sync events created in NeuroHub with a web based Calendar such as Google Calendar.
26~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to insert Greek symbols into my logbook entries.
1084~As a user, I want to have the ability to move multiple files around and rearrange them using the Neurohub file browser while processing data.
36~As a researcher, I want to point my Mendeley client at a group wide shared repository of research papers and get notifications via Mendeley when new content is added.
5712~As a researcher, I want to have electronic support for keeping track of which data sets were used or output or modified as part of a particular experiment.
17~As a user, I want a mechanism for electronically sharing papers and notes with other researchers, so that we can collaborate effectively.
336~As a researcher, I want to have services to support the long term curation of data, so that I can be sure that data will not get 'lost' with the passage of time.
432~As a researcher, I want to have a timeline display of multiple data files and their associated images, so that I can compare the data taken from experiments on particular dates.
80~As a researcher, I want to have remote access to my data for off site working, so that I can still work effectively while away from the lab.
2~As a researcher, I want to share post experiment write ups with other researchers, so that others can more easily replicate my work.
1120~As a researcher, I want to collect data as a library of data, which can then be used by one or multiple experiments that are defined at a later stage.
2344~As a researcher, I want to indicate within my electronic log book which experimental data is good or bad, hide the bad data, but still keep it in the system just in case it is useful in the future.
186~As a researcher, I want to have the system to provide standard metadata, that all researchers in the centre (and beyond) can use, so that we can better understand each others' data.
1040~As a researcher, I want to have physiology images to be annotated with standard meta data, so that my data can later be searched for and understood.
376~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to attach standard meta data for behavioural observations (and video), so that my data can later be searched for and understood.
408~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to attach standard meta data for drug responses, so that my data can later be searched for and understood.
532~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to search for images of cells using standard meta data.
342~As a researcher, I want to have at least some meta data to be automatically inserted when new data is added to the system.
1208~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to attach detailed meta data to the data and entries that I create.
17664~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to select a partially pre populated template that already contains commonly entered meta data while adding new data to the system, so that I do not waste time repeatedly inserting the same meta data over and over again for each individual file or log book entry.
266~As a user, I want to be sure that existing metadata corresponding to the file is not lost when moving a file to a new location.
4496~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to form links between objects, for example File A is an analysis of File B, so that data can be searched by type and by association.
176~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to locate experiment files using meta data, regardless of where those files are located.
56424~As a researcher, I want to have any data that I have written to the VRE to be protected from modification or deletion, so that original data can always be traced back to an experiment and a point in time.
1172~As a user, I want to have the ability to keep my data private on the system, and only share data that I deem should be shared.
15~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to store all the inputs for an experiment so that the provenance of the results can be verified.
2~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to search for files by file type and format.
22~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to bulk upload directories and files with minimal effort.
264128~As a researcher, I want to associate meta data to the group as a whole at some point in time after the bulk upload has completed, so that I have a period of time to reflect on suitable values for the meta data.
124~As a user, I want to have the ability to change the sharing and ownership of multiple files.
472~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to restrict the data I share to certain researchers or groups of researchers.
356~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to locate and access data that colleagues want to share.
91~As a researcher, I want to have the ability to interact with a revision control system so that I can keep track of changes to files over time.
4~As a Junior Researcher, I want to have the ability to harvest knowledge from within the group, so that I can learn from more experienced researchers.
10~As a researcher, I want to secure remote access to the Neurohub node when working away from the laboratory
178~As a researcher, I want to have a group level repository for sharing papers or reviews or comments with other researchers.
403~As a researcher, I want to have the details of the workflow plan as well as the execution history and results recorded in Neurohub while executing a workflow
1157~As an Older Person, I want to know exactly what ALFRED does with my personal data, and share it only on my specific permission.
10~As an Older Person, I want to receive information from ALFRED by speech technology.
10~As an Older Person, I want to use only well visible buttons.
62~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED as much as possible with speech interaction.
4~As an Older Person, I want to always keep control on the activities of ALFRED.
30~As an Older Person, I want to be able to manage my privacy and data settings.
36~As an Older Person, I want to have everything preinstalled, so that I do not have to set up ALFRED by myself.
26~As an Older Person, I want to have a small ALFRED device that is wearable and easy to carry with me.
2~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED on all my computers, tablets and phone.
1~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED on a bracelet or a necklace, so that I can always wear him with me.
238~As an Older Person, I want to have clear instructions and service after sales that guide me if I have trouble in using ALFRED.
6~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that speaks very slowly and clearly.
6~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that only reacts to me.
4~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that only listens to me when I ask it to.
6~As an Older Person, I want to have an introduction conversation with ALFRED, so that I can learn everything about him and he about me.
12~As an Older Person, I want to buy ALFRED in a senior shop with special client support.
5~As an Older Person, I want to buy ALFRED for a low price.
1~As an Older Person, I want to receive visual support, especially when looking at a list, map or agenda.
7~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to pay for small amounts.
6~As an Older Person, I want to have a very good battery for ALFRED so I can keep him on the whole day.
10~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that informs me about a low battery when leaving the house.
160~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that can be easily adapted for user that have visual or hearing troubles.
32~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that can be easily adapted for user that have visual troubles.
180~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that can be easily adapted for user that have hearing trouble.
6~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that repeats the last phrase.
4~As an Older Person, I want to be able to zoom into visual content.
144~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that responds to the changing demand of the users by offering new Apps in the ALFREDO platform.
44~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that helps me to communicate with my friends and family.
4~As an Older Person, I want to have video conversation with others.
2~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have videophone.
72~As an Older Person, I want to have an AFLRED device that encourages its users for real interaction between humans and not only with ICT tools.
52~As an Older Person, I want to have an ALFRED device that provides me with information about existing apps that corresponds to my interests.
20~As an Older Person, I want to be able to customize my preferences in the different functionalities of the solution.
26~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have a simple ALFRED unit that is expandable in is functions.
14~As an Older Person, I want to have my data stored directly on the phone.
64~As an Older Person, I want to receive a wake up call from ALFRED in the morning checking on me if I am ok.
13~As an Older Person, I want to receive day and night rythm support with agenda reminders.
16~As an Older Person, I want to receive support to use the public transport.
1~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED for navigation.
30~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED for touristic walks and indications with explanations on historical and cultural sights.
9~As an Older Person, I want to receive support to have a taxi on time.
332~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to see who is standing at my door and open the door.
178~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to pick the phone sooner up when I am at home.
14~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to turn on or off the lights.
14~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to control the heating.
27~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to control the TV and radio.
9~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to watch movies.
5~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to hear about the news.
6~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to contact help in case of an emergency.
1~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to use video calls in case of emergency.
23~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED contact the nearest caregiver when I ask ALFRED for urgent help.
5~As an Older Person, I want to receive a message when my home care nurse is on her way.
3~As an Older Person, I want to receive a medicine reminder from ALFRED.
13~As an Older Person, I want to be able to see whether I already have taken my pills, so that I can avoid an overdose.
10~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to be able to see if the patient has taken her medicine.
20~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to do my grocery shopping.
4~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to send messages.
5~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to detect falls and send an emergency to a specific contact.
2~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to suggest healthy recipes.
96~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED ask spontaneous questions but it would be better to programme it during certain times of the day.
1142~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to initiate questions, but it should be in the domains of my interest such as cinema, exhibitions, cooking.
10~As an Older Person, I want to be able to call someone with ALFRED.
2~As an Older Person, I want to activate the vocal interaction mode of ALFRED by pushing a specific button.
9~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to maintain my contact list in my phone.
4~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to manage my agenda.
11~As an Older Person, I want to insert my meetings into ALFRED using speech.
3~As an Older Person, I want to receive reminders on my appointments.
55~As an Older Person, I want to receive a reminder from ALFRED on all the things I need to bring with me when I leave the house.
7~As a Social Caregiver, I want ALFRED to remind me of the things I need to bring to the person I care for.
80~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to set up social groups of people with similar diseases.
15~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to contact people from my own circle.
18~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to learn about art expositions or a museum.
915~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to learn about all the social activities that are organized in my neighborhood.
44~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to get a personalized invitation to a social event, so that it motivates more to go.
23~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to navigate to an event or concert and help me when I am lost.
13~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to help me navigate despite my mild cognitive impairments.
6~As an Older Person, I want to be able to pay for small amounts.
51~As an Older Person, I want to use ALFRED to organize a meeting with a group of friends at a certain place.
13~As an Older Person, I want to play online games together with other users.
13~As an Older Person, I want to get suggestions for sports classes in my neighbourhood.
36~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to enable me to have face to face contacts as well, so that I do not just have virtual contacts over ALFRED.
8~As an Older Person, I want to help me to control my body weight.
10~As an Older Person, I want to just press one button to call my caregiver.
12~As an Older Person, I want to decide who has access to my vital data.
4~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to be sure that the user can decide who has access to her data.
14~As an Older Person, I want to have the wearables with integrated sensors to look good and not to be stigmatizing.
1~As an Older Person, I want to see my vital parameters myself on the phone.
2~As an Older Person, I want to have the ALFRED shirt to look good.
7~As an Older Person, I want to have the ALFRED shirt has to be non stigmatizing.
14~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to be able to determine the user's blood pressure.
14~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to be able to determine the user's body temperature.
7~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to be able to determine the user's heart rate.
49~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to be able to determine the user's breathing frequency.
12~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have feedback on the activity level of the user.
2~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to locate the ALFRED user.
1766~As a Social Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to be able to recognize pain and or stress by using skin conduction sensors.
6~As a Social Caregiver, I want to have a step counter included into ALFRED.
164~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to give me goals and missions that encourage me to do new activities and exercises and to go out.
48~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to set limits in the games duration as I get bored easily.
5~As an Older Person, I want to play games where I can use my Imagination.
496~As an Older Person, I want to do guided exercises with ALFRED and ALFRED should also use sensors to capture health data while I am doing exercises.
6~As an Older Person, I want to have games that include my favourite sports.
12~As an Older Person, I want to receive suggestions about local sport Classes.
3~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to remind me to keep a good body posture.
3~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to remind people to exercise regularly.
8~As an Older Person, I want to receive specific tips how to reduce my health impairments without medication.
3~As an Older Person, I want to have some games that show me how good my memory and physical health is.
12~As an Older Person, I want to have training for specific muscle Groups.
52~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to offer training for specific muscle groups.
12~As an Older Person, I want to be able to see my training Performance.
2000~As an Older Person, I want to have ALFRED to help to motivate me during the week to do exercise that should change daily, as the constant change motivates me.
92~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to propose me games that require the combination of mental and physical exercise, such as opposing motion exercises of the arms and legs.
36~As an Older Person, I want to games that require the combination of mental and physical exercise, such as opposing motion exercises of the arms and legs.
18~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to control if the user does the exercise correct.
415~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have a regular summary on how much exercise is performed by the user.
208~As an Informal Caregiver, I want to have a game that the carer could play together with the user, so that it would enable to monitor the users' state of health but also have some fun time.
52~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to have ALFRED to propose training that promotes complex thinking.
40~As a Medical Caregiver, I want to give corrective feedback if exercises are performed wrong, too much or in any other way harmful to the user.
10~As a developer, I want to present my app to as many people as Possible.
44~As a developer, I want to have the accounting to be as simple and clear as Possible.
16~As a developer, I want to easily create and to maintain my apps within the market place.
1531~As a developer, I want to enable customers to provide feedback about my App and need an easy way to watch this feedback.
13~As a developer, I want to have an easy way to manage the pricing modality of my Apps.
14~As a developer, I want to have the API to be well defined and well documented.
3~As a developer, I want to obtain Apps development support.
10~As a developer, I want to know the fees the provider of the market place charges for using the platform.
2~As a developer, I want to be notified as soon as possible when the state of any of my Apps changes.
18~As a developer, I want to have detailed information of what happened when my App crashes on the user's device.
4~As a developer, I want to present my App in several ways.
40~As a developer, I want to be able to design my App on my own though there will be a few rules I have to stand to.
49~As a developer, I want to have an easy way to define questions the user can ask and perform.
39~As a developer, I want to have my App to be granted access to several operating system features.
752~As a developer, I want to have the API components to be on a high level so that I don't have to deal with their details.
628~As a developer, I want to have an easy way to read data from health sensors the user is wearing.
22~As a serious games developer, I want to be able to take control over some functions to provide the desired user experience.
23~As a developer, I want to provide an easy way to manage the user Settings.
10~As a developer, I want to have the ALFRED API to reduce the work to achieve my goals.
1~As a anonymous user, I want to view a list of sponsors, so that I can thank all the awesome sponsors.
2~As a anonymous user, I want to view a list of user profiles, so that I know who is attending the conference.
8~As a training coordinator, I want to email all the trainers at once from the website for info and updates, so that It is easier to use.
240~As a attendee, I want to have a very clear map where the buildings and rooms are, so that I can make it to class on time.
20~As a trainer, I want to edit my training node myself, so that the training coordinators don't have to and links to slides.
1~As a trainee, I want to limit to one registration per day per authenticated user, so that we don't have duplicate spaces.
16~As a training coordinator, I want to have an admin view that helps track registration status for each attendee so that, so that we can see if attendend, refunded, no show.
2~As a attendee, I want to be added to a training waitlist, so that so they can be considered for a class.
4~As a trainee, I want to must accept the cancellation terms with a checkbox, so that they can be accountable..
340~As a training coordinator, I want to tie in a cancellation deadline to whatever registration or cancellation workflow exists, so that so we don't loose money or spots.
7~As a trainee, I want to add to "my schedule" if there is a schedule feature on the site, so that they can schedule their event experience.
72~As a trainee, I want to see which trainings I have signed up for, so that they can schedule their event experience.
206756~As a trainer, I want to have a view that is attached to their training node that shows all attendee information Trainers can see all class attendance at first because there are so little trainers and they are trusted with privacy, so that the training coordinator doesn't have to do all the work to get login info for environment setup.
5488~As a training coordinator, I want to have an admin view where all trainee information is shown and can be filtered to show a single training session, so that I can see WTF is happening.
266772~As a anonymous user, I want to have a dedicated page for each class to learn more about the offering The following information must be shown: Logo, title, trainers, location, possibly a map view, datetime, skill level, registrations remaining, link to register for class.
84~The URL path should be SEO friendly or training or training title, so that I can choose the right class, AND the trainer can tweet and promote their class.
99999~As a anonymous user, I want to have the training options clearly marked for the following information: day and time of training, title, short summary, trainers, level, number of registrations, remaining registrations, location of training, link to full details of the training, register now link, so that I can shop for training all with one page AND find their class on on one page.
261444~As a anonymous user, I want to have a training landing page with an intro section and a list of all training offerings and promote call for trainings, so that I can shop for training all with one page and we can have a call for trainings for selection.
90~As a anonymous user, I want to have a link on the home page to a list of training options, so that I can take training.
310~As a anonymous user, I want to find out where the coding lounge is and what time it is open, so that I can code with my friends.
42~As a administrator, I want to refund sponsorship money that was processed via stripe, so that people get their monies back.
42~As a authenticated user, I want to find a link on the sponsorships page to become a $350 level sponsor, so that I can pay for and become a sponsor role.
90~As a anonymous user, I want to See a list of attendees associated with this company, so that I know who from this sponsor organization is attending.
3586~As a authenticated user, I want to identify myself as and pay for a $350 company sponsorship, so that I can easily become a sponsor at this level without having to interface with badcamp personnel to get a sponsorship.
12~As a administrator, I want to create and maintain venues, so that I can provide location details to help users find what they're looking for.
26~As a anonymous user, I want to view venue details, so that I can get a sense of the location and see the events happening there.
619~As a anonymous user, I want to see a list of the sessions associated with sponsor attendees, so that I know where I can engage with this sponsor and where they are thought leaders.
16~As a authenticated user, I want to See a payment page to pay for my individual sponsorships as the third step of the registration process so that pay for my sponsorship.
9~As a administrator, I want to assign sponsors to events, trainings and summits so that They will be featured on the sponsor detail page.
89860~As a anonymous user, I want to see all events, trainings and summits that a sponsor is sponsoring so that I know where I can engage with this sponsor and where they are thought leaders.
87~As a authenticated user, I want to Enter payment information and have my card charged for an individual sponsorship, so that I can pay for an individual sponsorship.
4~As a sponsor, I want to link BADCamp attendees to my sponsorship page, so that I can show off our level of attendance.
2~As a authenticated user, I want to update my user profile, so that I can connect with other Drupalists at BADCamp.
50~As a anonymous user, I want to sign up for the BADCamp newsletter, so that I can stay up to date with the latest communications about BADCamp.
10~As a administrator, I want to tag my blog posts for consumption by Drupal Planet, so that they will be listed on the Drupal Planet blog.
6~As a administrator, I want to create blog posts, so that I can share the latest information about BADCamp with the public.
14~As a anonymous user, I want to read the blog, so that I can stay informed about all the latest happenings with BADCamp.
32~As a sponsor, I want to sponsor a summit that matches my brand, so that I can get exposure to potential customers and otherwise tout my Drupal credentials.
2~As a attendee, I want to register for a summit, so that I can reserve my seat at the summit.
2~As a attendee, I want to get detailed directions to the summit venue, so that I can get to the summit easily on the day of the event.
2742~As a attendee, I want to see what summits I'm signed up for, so that I can confirm my attendence and prevent myself from accidentally double booking with a training or another summit.
483~As a summit coordinator, I want to see a list of attendees signed up for my summit, so that I can communicate with my attendees by email prior to the event.
10~As a summit coordinator, I want to list basic information about my summit, so that I can inform potential attendees on why they should attend my summit.
16~As a summit coordinator, I want to list sponsors for my summit, so that I can make sure sponsors feel rewarded and will be interested in sponsoring in future years.
24~As a summit coordinator, I want to list an agenda for my summit, so that I can entice attendees and give positive feedback to presenters to encourage participation.
168~As a anonymous user, I want to see how many seats are left for the summit, so that I can make sure to register in time to reserve my spot.
2192~As a anonymous user, I want to see specific details on summits, so that I can learn more about the summit I'm interested in to see if it matches my interests, register for the event, and get day of knowledge to help me get to the location.
11~As a anonymous user, I want to see a list of all the summits, so that I can determine which summit I might be interested and able to attend.
18~As a anonymous user, I want to learn about sponsorship levels, so that I can determine the right level of sponsorship for my organization.
360~As a authenticated user, I want to use a WYSIWYG editor for all long form content, so that I don't have to know HTML to update my content.
16~As a sponsor, I want to Link to my sponsorship profile from my job listings, so that recruits can learn more about my organization.
306~As a anonymous user, I want to learn about posting jobs as a sponsor and contact the sponsorship person, so that I have the opportunty to post my job listing on the BADCamp site.
2~As a sponsor, I want to post a job, so that I can hire top tier Drupal talent.
4~As a authenticated user, I want to view the job board, so that I can look for an interesting Drupal gig!.
3~As a administrator, I want to assign a room to a time slot and a location, so that I can populate the schedule .
4~As a anonymous user, I want to see the schedule, so that I can plan my day and figure out where to go!.
48~As a anonymous user, I want to see the final list of sessions approved, so that I can see what's going on at BADCamp .
3~As a administrator, I want to bulk approve sessions as accepted, so that I can save time.
2~As a administrator, I want to mark a session as accepted, so that I can populate the schedule .
8~As a anonymous user, I want to receive a notification when sessions have been evaluated, so that I know whether I've been accepted or rejected.
24~As a anonymous user, I want to receive a notification when I submit a session, so that know that my session went through ok.
1~As a authenticated user, I want to edit my session, so that if I make a mistake, I can correct it.
4~As a anonymous user, I want to register to speak at BADCamp, so that I submit a session.
4~As a authenticated user, I want to submit a session at BADCAMP, so that I can get my session evaluated.
1~As a sponsor, I want to personalize my sponsorship page, so that I can promote my brand.
84~As a anonymous user, I want to see a list of all the summits that include when they are, so that I can determine which summit I want to attend.
64~As a authenticated user, I want to Be offered several choices of idividual sponsorship on the second page of registration, so that I can be awesome and financially support the camp.
56~As a anonymous user, I want to easily find a link in the menu that links to the registration form, so that I can easily register for the camp.
48~As a anonymous user, I want to fill out a user registration form, so that I can register for the camp and get an account on the website.
1~As a anonymous user, I want to find session information, so that I can go to a session.
10~As a PI, I want to properly record all metadata, so that I can ensure proper running of the project in case of staff changes.
16~As a researcher, I want to indicate where my data will be stored during the project and where after the project, so that it remains accessible during all stages of the data lifecycle.
20~As a researcher, I want to import metadata that I captured with a metadata tool, so that I do not have to capture it again in a DMP.
72~As a data manager, I want to know how the data is used, so that I can develop more detailed usage and support scenarios with researchers.
3760~As a repository owner, I want to be able to check the planned provenance of the data that will be submitted at the end of a project, so that I can calculate necessary submission fees and check whether it belongs to our target group.
168~As an IT manager, I want to know about IT resource requirements early in the project lifecycle, so that I can enable resource acquisition planning.
17707~As a PI, I want to plan what kind of data I want to record or store, so that I can ensure it will possible to store it.
4~As an IT staff member, I want to know the security requirements of the data, so that I know which kind of security measures to apply.
105440~As a data manager, I want to have the description of collected data sets that are used or updated throughout the project lifecycle, so that I can ensure the descriptions are current and add detail as the study proceeds.
4~As a researcher, I want to know which topics are mandatory and similar in all DMPs, so that I can save time through quickly writing it.
5088~As a data manager, I want to know what the content of the data is, so that I can decide to which collection or repository the data fits.
4~As a PI, I want to record information about my DMP, so that an Ethics Committee can review this for compliance with ethical standards.
4~As a legalofficer, I want to know about data sensitivity, so that I can establish sharing options.
384~As a data librarian, I want to extract pointers from the DMP to metadata held in other systems, so that I can import this metadata into a data catalogue.
4~As an IT staff member, I want to have an estimate of the produced data volume, so that I can plan the overall storage consumption.
1~As an administrator, I want to know who funded the project and their requirements, so that I can track the funder specific obligations.
2~As an archivemanager, I want to know the legal status of data, so that I can apply the legal requirements accordingly.
19200~As a data manager, I want to know which kind of data types will be produced or collected, so that I can determine what basic support services and functionalities are required.
11200~As an IT staff member, I want to know which kind of data types will be produced or collected, so that I can determine what basic support services and functionalities are required.
4~As an archivemanager, I want to know in advance the conservation period of data, so that I can better organize the service by adapting the preservation actions.
80~As a data manager, I want to document all rights necessary for managing the data, so that I can curate and preserve the data.
112~As a data manager, I want to know what the content of the data is, so that I can check whether the necessary expertise for maintaining intellectual reusability is available.
2367~As a research head, I want to access to the persistent identifiers of datasets provided in the DMP, so that I can check that the DMP has been implemented.
336~As a funder, I want to be able to read the costs for data management from the DMP, so that I can check whether our policies work as intended.
22560~As a researcher, I want the DMP to prepopulate information that I have already entered in other institutional systems, so that I do not have to re enter information ensuring the DMP contains accurate and standardized information.
30~As a stakeholder, I want to know when the data management plan was created or updated, so that I know how up to date the plan is or whether it needs to be updated.
2~As a stakeholder, I want to know who is responsible for the DMP, so that I can ask them about further details.
6~As a stakeholder, I want to have references to the project proposal, so that I can look up further general information.
4~As a metadata manager, I want to have a short description of project, so that I can be informed about the metadata description.
22~As a rector, I want to know how many data will be stored, so that I can plan long term resources.
56~As a data manager, I want to know the time plan for collecting data, so that I can plan the data management.
24~As a data librarian, I want to import administrative information regarding a project into DMP, so that I can prepopulate the DMP.
100~As a manager, I want to know about all resources and services used for the data, so that I can estimate the true cost of the project.
5~As an archivemanager, I want to reuse the information regarding file format, so that I can apply automated checks for the file validation.
9~As a researcher, I want to know how many resources are needed during the project, so that I can calculate costs.
144~As a researcher, I want to extract the description of the data collected, so that I can reuse it for the writing of a data paper.
170~As a researcher, I want to record research publications in the institutional repository or CRIS with DMP records, so that I can generate reports of research output resulting from a project.
170~As a researcher, I want to link research publications in the institutional repository or CRIS with DMP records, so that I can generate reports of research output resulting from a project.
3144~As a researcher, I want to store agreements relating to third party data used in a project, so that the data can be cited, attributed and used correctly.
8~As an ethics manager, I want to be informed about the data, so that I can check for sensitivity of data.
8~As a repository operator, I want to know about the kind of data, so that I can evaluate the storage size and system.
1~As a researcher, I want to know about costs, so that I can plan my research.
20~As a repository manager, I need details on the type of data, so that I can check if the archiving can be arranged.
4~As an IT officer, I want to know how secure data is, so that I can ensure legal compliance.
4~As a funder, I want to know how secure data is, so that I can ensure legal compliance.
368~As a Research Centre Director, I want to receive regular summary reports of research data, so that I understand trends in data use among staff and postgraduate students.
368~As a Postgraduate Convenor, I want to receive regular summary reports of research data, so that I understand trends in data use among staff and postgraduate students.
9~As a research support officer, I want to ensure compliance to the funders' rules, so that I can ensure all costs will be accepted.
148~As a funder, I want to be able to check all the repositories mentioned in a DMP, so that I can verify whether the project has followed our funding rules.
1340~As a PI, I want to plan what kind of data I want to store, so that I can ensure it will be possible to store it.
4~As a PI, I want to know how secure data is, so that I can ensure legal compliance.
531623~As a Director of Research Integrity, I want to access reports containing details of research projects in which data are classified as sensitive or highly sensitive, so that I can confirm security protocols are applied to these data.
66~As an archive, I want to get information about the volume of data to preserve at an early stage, so that I can provide the adequate storage infrastructure.
24~As a researcher, I want to know how long it will take to archive, so that I can plan further steps.
12~As a PI, I want to know who owns the data, so that I know what I am allowed to do with it.
112~As a data manager, I want to have references to documentation of the data and its creation process, so that the data can be re used and managed.
144~As an archivemanager, I want to make sure that detailed metadata are associated to data so that it will be understandable by future users.
223136~As a data manager, I want to know which kind of data types will be produced or collected, so that I can ensure that the necessary technical resources and technical know how is available.
130932~As an IT staff member, I want to know which kind of data types will be produced or collected, so that I can ensure that the necessary technical resources and technical know how is available.
32~As an IT staff member, I want to know how the data is used, so that I can determine what kind of basic services and functionalities are required.
296~As a data manager, I want to know whether the collected data depends on other data sets from my own or other institutions, so that I can ensure that these dependencies are maintained.
142~As an IT staff member, I want to know which formats are used, so that I can determine what kind of technical services and functionalities are required.
639906~As an IT staff member, I want to know with which software or technology the data is produced or used, so that I can determine what kind of technical services and functionalities are required.
36800~As a data manager, I want to know which information is necessary to re use the data, so that it can be checked whether all necessary information is available for researchers interested in re using the data.
128~As a data manager, I want to know which formats are used, so that I know what technology or background information might be necessary to use the data.
32~As a data manager, I want to know whether the data can be reproduced efficiently, so that I can determine whether and how the data has to be stored.
5122304~As a data manager, I want to know with which software or technology the data is produced or used, so that I know what technology or background information might be necessary to (re )use the data.
1~As a research evaluation manager, I want to ensure all data are quoted correctly with our affiliation, so that they are counted towards our citation counts.
1~As an administrator, I want to check that all data has the appropriate security level, so that I can demonstrate compliance.
8~As a data manager, I want to know the security requirements of the data, so that I can check whether the data can be kept secure.
512~As a institutional data steward, I want to be able to extract the data sets that are submitted to external repositories, so that I can add them to an institutional data catalogue.
1120~As an institutional data manager, I want to know about the privacy and security requirements of the data, so that I can plan the right storage system and sharing permissions.
112~As a researcher, I want to see the sections on costing by other researchers in my department, so that I can see if we could share data manager posts.
384~As a researcher, I want to see the sections on roles submitted by other researchers in my department, so that I can see if we could share data manager posts.
384~As a researcher, I want to see the sections on responsibilities submitted by other researchers in my department, so that I can see if we could share data manager posts.
16~As a faculty data steward, I want to see the sections on costing, so that I can ensure sufficient expertise on data management to support the project.
16~As a faculty data steward, I want to see the sections on roles, so that I can ensure sufficient expertise on data management to support the project.
16~As a faculty data steward, I want to see the sections on responsibilities, so that I can ensure sufficient expertise on data management to support the project.
384~As a data manager, I want to clarify the necessary rights for re using the data, so that it is legal to reuse the data.
2160~As a researcher, I want to record my intention to share data I have collected under terms of a particular licence, so that other researchers who use the data understand the rights of use.
928~As a data manager, I want to plan the anonymization of data, so that we protect the privacy of the people participating in the research as good as possible and still ensure reusability of data.
22~As a repository manager, I want to have metadata in additional languages, so that I can allow for multilingual data archive.
36~As a data manager, I want to know whether the DMP was approved, so that I can proceed with the required next steps.
151~As a researcher, I want to be able to view a finding aid for a particular collection or Resource.
7~As an Application Administrator, I want to be able to reset a User's password for them.
9~As a user, I want backend changes for managing enum lists.
23~As an Archivist, I want to import EAD files that were exported by Archon.
36~As an Archivist, I want to assign a component unique identifier to a Resource Component.
1~As a User, I want to authenticate using LDAP.
8806~As a migration specialist, I want to store the AT or Archon source record ids in each ASpace record to support data migration integrity testing.
28~As an Archivist, I want to associate a standard identifier string with a Subject heading.
21~As an Archivist, I want to be able to understand that an error occurred during import and why it might have occurred.
8~As an Archivist, I want to import Accessions data in CSV.
4~As an Archivist, I want to import Resources from MARCXML records.
9~As a user, I want frontend changes for managing enum lists.
5~As an Authenticated User, I want to get access to links to contextual help.
1368~As an Archivist, I want to see Dates and Extents displayed in both the read and edit views for Accessions and or Resources before the list of Subjects.
21~As an Archivist, I want to import Agent information from EAC CPF records.
147~As a user, I want backend changes to support loading enum value lists from the database.
32~As a user, I want backend changes for bulk updating one enum value to another.
7~As an Archivist, I want to export agent records as EAC CPF.
11~As an Archivist, I want to import only Agent and Subject information from MARCXML records.
11~As an Application Administrator, I want to assign Users to an Advanced Data Entry and ensure that the appropriate permissions are enforced.
18~As an Application Administrator, I want to be able to configure the help center URL and topic mappings.
3~As a user, I want to add additional properties for repositories.
3~As an Archivist, I want to add Notes to other record types.
2~As an Administrator, I want to create a new User account for someone else.
14314~As an Archivist, I want to add administrative data about the archival description and finding aid related data to a top level Resource.
54~As an Archivist, I want to assign a Level of description to a Resource or Resource Component and optionally specify another value if the Level is not in a predefined list.
45~As a developer, I want to use a configuration that is not prepackaged within a built version of application.
42~As an Archivist, I want to import EAD files that were exported by the Archivists' Toolkit.
270~As a systems administrator, I want to be able to control the location of the demo database and I want it to be backed up.
11~As an archivist, I want to search within a repository for resource and accession and digital object records.
4~As an archivist, I want to create and edit a Collection Management subrecord.
28~As an Archivist, I want to rearrange the Resource and or Digital Object hierarchy using keyboard based navigation.
23~As an Archivist, I want to rearrange the resource description hierarchy by dragging an archival object to a different position in the hierarchy.
499~As an Archivist, I would like to indicate an Agent is either the creator or source or subject of an Accession or Resource or Resource Component.
2~As an Archivist, I want to export a description as EAD.
2~As an Archivist, I want to create and edit Event records.
2~As an Archivist, I want to manage Digital Objects.
10~As an Archivist, I want to associate an Instance with a Resource and or Resource Component.
7~As an Archivist, I don't want to inadvertently overwrite someone else's changes to a record that I'm editing.
4~As an Archivist, I want to create and edit Rights Management statements.
8~As an Archivist, I want to upload an EAD for import from within the frontend application.
6~As an Archivist, I want to import EAD data.
3~As a Repository Manager, I want to create, update and delete archival descriptions in my repository.
2~As a Developer, I want to develop a custom importer.
8~As a Basic Data Entry user, I want to create and update basic archival description information.
3~As a Repository Manager, I want to create, update and delete any records in my repository.
6~As a ReadOnly user, I want to view archival descriptions in my repository.
4~As an System Administrator, I want to declare that a user is has the Repository Manager role for a given Repository.
74~As an Archivist, I want to specify the Source for a Name Form of an Agent and add new Sources and edit existing Sources.
2~As an Archivist, I want to create and edit Agent records.
2~As an Archivist, I want to create and edit a Resource record.
4~As an Archivist, I want to associate a Subject record with a Resource description.
1~As a User, I want to authenticate locally.
3~As User, I want to be able to log in.
1~As an Archivist, I want to associate an Instance with a Container.
5~As an Archivist, I want to assign Location information to a Container.
2~As a depositor, I want to deposit and maintain datasets through a simple web interface, so that I don't need to install and learn new software to deposit.
105~As a depositor, I want to have a user interface that is familiar to me, so that I feel like all the University systems are joined up.
32~As a depositor, I want to deposit and maintain datasets through Pure, so that I have a single onestop shop for managing my research outputs.
72~As a depositor, I want to deposit and maintain datasets through Virtual Research Environments and other workflow tools, so that I can continue to work with tools with which I'm familiar.
4016~As a depositor, I want to deposit the files that I have, so that I don't have to spend a lot of time finding the right version and converting to the right format.
20~As a depositor, I want to place data under an embargo, so that my right of first use is protected, and I can fulfil my confidentiality responsibilities.
2~As a depositor, I want to apply licenses to datasets, so that my IP rights are protected appropriately.
36~As a depositor, I want to allow my collaborators privileged access to datasets, so that we continue to have a productive relationship.
92~As a depositor, I want to deposit arbitrarily large files, so that I am not limited in what files I can and cannot deposit.
65~As a depositor, I want to link datasets to publications in Opus, so that both my data and publications are more easily discovered.
18~As a depositor, I want to mint DOIs for my data, so that it can be discovered and cited more easily and citations can be tracked so that I can receive credit.
1150~As a depositor, I want to have metadata automatically filled from other University systems and remembered from previous deposits, so that I don't have to waste time reentering the same information.
178048~As a depositor, I want to link to data stored in external repositories, so that I can store my data in an appropriate repository but still register it with the University and I don't have to deposit my data in multiple places.
8~As a depositor, I want to specify a disposal policy for my data, so that I do not accidentally breach laws or collaboration agreements.
2~As a depositor, I want to track downloads of my data, so that I can demonstrate the impact of my work.
2~As a depositor, I want to track citations of my data, so that I can demonstrate the impact of my work
64~As a depositor, I want to have guarantees about data integrity, so that I can use my data in the future and I can fulfil funder requirements for archival.
96~As a depositor, I want to attach subject specific discoverability metadata to records, so that researchers in my discipline can find my data more easily.
204~As a depositor, I want to link datasets with the project DMP, so that compliance with DMP can be demonstrated and whole project workflow is linked together.
144~As a depositor, I want to manage and share live research data, so that whole project workflow is linked together.
32~As a depositor, I want to manage multiple versions of the same dataset, so that changes to the dataset are transparent and do not compromise research integrity.
8~As a depositor, I want to allow others to deposit on my behalf, so that I can delegate research data management tasks appropriately.
32~As a data reuser, I want to search the archive through the web, so that I can easily find data relevant to my needs.
32~As a data reuser, I want to access the system in my native language, so that I am not put off reusing University of Bath data by language barriers.
84~As a data reuser, I want to examine and identify deposited files, so that I can make a preliminary assessment of usefulness without downloading the whole dataset.
8~As a data reuser, I want to view an example citation for a dataset, so that I can reference it correctly.
64~As a data reuser, I want to view a DOI for a dataset, so that I can get back to the data in future and I can import the dataset into my referencemanagement software automatically.
12~As a data reuser, I want to get a persistent URL for a dataset, so that I can get back to the data in future.
72~As a data reuser, I want to search the archive through Primo, so that I can search books, articles and data all in one place.
12~As a data reuser, I want to see different versions of a dataset at a glance, so that I can be sure I'm using the right version of the dataset.
1008~As an external collaborator, I want to gain privileged access to data for projects in which I am involved, so that I can collaborate effectively.
16~As an external coordinator, I want to have guarantees that my IP rights will not be breached, so that the risk of collaborating with Bath is acceptable to me.
10~AS an external coordinator, I want to access data from Bath collaborators off campus, so that I can collaborate effectively.
12288~As a research facility manager, I want to deposit data from my facility directly into the archive on behalf of researchers, so that I am no longer required to maintain my own archive of facility data and researchers can access their own data as needed.
2964~As a Bath Data Archive administrator, I want to make some checks on deposited datasets before they are made public, so that consistent quality of metadata is maintained, compliance with policies can be checked and details of licensing can be checked.
44~As a Bath Data Archive administrator, I want to require a minimum set of metadata, so that consistent quality of metadata is maintained.
120~As a Bath Data Archive administrator, I want to approve scheduled disposal of data, so that data which is still required is not destroyed.
16~As a Bath Data Archive administrator, I want to query the entire archive, so that I can report on particular aspects of the archive holdings.
992~As a Bath Data Archive administrator, I want to import Bath data from an external data centre wholesale, so that Bath data holdings in external archives are not lost if they close down.
216~As a Bath Data Archive administrator, I want to encourage and promote the use of open standards for deposit, so that data is as reusable as possible.
48~As a Research Information manager, I want to integrate the archive with CRIS, so that I can analyse impact of research data publication I can link funding to all of the outputs it produces.
1168~As a Research Information manager, I want to include records for externally held data complete, so that the university's record of data holdings is complete.
24~As a Research Information manager, I want to track citation counts for published datasets, so that impact of datasets within academia can be demonstrated.
36~As a Research Information manager, I want to segment the view and download statistics by country and sector so that impact of datasets outside academia can be demonstrated.
8816~As a Research Information manager, I want to have datasets linked to metadata about projects, so that I can report on projects depositing datasets in relation to funder requirements.
144416~As an Univ IT service, I want to store archived data on existing storage systems, so that university data storage is consistent and maintainable and future availability of data can be guaranteed.
96~As an Univ IT service, I want to integrate the archive with existing university systems such as LDAP, so that the cost of administering the system can be kept low.
4~As an Univ IT service, I want to store archived data directly on the HCP object store, so that features can be made.
2664~As an Univ IT service, I want to be able to export all data to a different system, so that I am not tied into one system which may not be the most appropriate at some point in the future.
3~As a developer, I want to deposit and maintain datasets via an API such as SWORD2, so that my service can interact with the archive.
368~As an academic publisher, I want to make persistent web links between my articles and underlying datasets, so that my journals can be seen to be filled with robust, high quality research.
8~As a funding body, I want to be reassured that researchers I fund have robust archival plans for their data, so that I can be sure that funding them is a worthwhile investment.
36~As a funding body, I want to harvest metadata on outputs from research I fund, so that I can analyse effectiveness of funding strategy and I can encourage cross fertilisation of research outputs.
262~As a repository manager, I want to know all the collections and objects in the DAMS for which I have custodial responsibility.
86~As a repository manager, I want to be able to update repository information in one place and be assured updates will be propagated to all relevant places.
1714~As a repository manager, I want to constrain curatorial access to my units assets to staff members of my unit and to DAMS managers having universal access.
66~As a user, I want to list all the collections and objects in the DAMS that belong to a library unit.
6~As a user, I want to be able to contact repositories.
296~As the DAMS manager, I want to be able to list for browsing all formal collections represented in the DAMS along with the appropriate relationships.
36~As a repository manager, I want to know all the collections for which I have curatorial responsibility.
3564~As a repository manager, I want to compose collections, limiting the collection to the items sharing the same provenance, limiting the collection to represent a part of a collection have a singular provenance, or assembly a collection from other collections and objects.
1~As a repository manager, I want to say one collection is related to another collection.
126~As a repository manager, I want to describe a collection, including its title, it's inclusive or bulk dates, its language(s), and many other aspects.
8~As a repository manager, I want to indicate names related to the collection either as creator, source, or subject.
4~As a repository manager, I want to indicate subjects related to the collection.
6~As a repository manager, I want to indicate other descriptions of the collection that are outside the DAMS and of probable importance to users.
12~As a repository manager, I want to know all events occurring to a collection.
18~As a user, I want to be able to browse by collections in the DAMS.
7~As a user, I want to be able to limit my search to specified collection(s).
10~As a repository manager, I want know all the components belonging to an object.
12~As repository manager, I want to know all the files belonging to an object.
19~As a repository manager, I want to describe an object, including its title, date(s), language(s), and other aspects.
4~As a repository manager, I want to indicate names related to an object.
7~As a repository manager, I want to indicate subjects that are related to an object.
2~As a repository manager, I want to indicate the copyright status of an object.
5~As a repository manager, I want to indicate any statutes pertinent to an object.
3~As a repository manager, I want to indicate any license pertinent to an object.
12~As a repository manager, I want to indicate any other rights pertinent to an object.
1184~As a repository manager, I want to indicate any external versions or descriptions of an object that may be of probable importance to an user.
24~As a repository manager, I want to know all events done to an object over the object's life cycle.
3~As a DAMS manager, I want to know what repository an object belongs to.
14~As a DAMS manager I want to know what collection(s) an object belongs to.
3~As a user, I want to know what repository an object belongs to.
5~As a user, I want to know what collection(s) an object belongs to.
7~As a user, I want to see all the component parts of an object.
20~As a user, I want to have access to the content files for an object.
3~As a user, I want to know the rights status of an object.
175~As a user, I want to know about other versions of the object or its metadata that might be of use to me.
6~As a repository manager, I want to represent the physical and or logical structure of an object.
9~As a repository manager, I want to list all the components, in their appropriate order, for an object.
14~As a repository manager, I want to link, when appropriate, a component to another component or to a file.
6~As a repository manager, I want to describe each component as necessary, including title, date(s), language(s), and other facets.
20~As a repository manager, I want to indicate any name that is pertinent to the component.
40~As a repository manager, I want to indicate any subject that is pertinent to the component.
210~As a repository manager, I want to indicate if the component has a copyright status different than that of of the object as a whole.
2~As a repository manager, I want to indicate if a statute pertains to the component, apart from the object as a whole.
2~As a repository manager, I want to indicate if a license pertains to the component, apart from the object as a whole.
2~As a repository manager, I want to indicate if other rights pertain to the component, apart from the object as a whole.
35~As a repository manager, I want to know all events occurring to a component over its life cycle.
2~As a DAMS manager, I want to present in their assigned order all components comprising an object.
38~As a user, I want to be able to see and navigate the component hierarchy of an object.
140~As a repository manager, I want to know all the content files in the DAMS for my repository's objects.
48~As a repository manager, I want to associate a content file with either an object or an object component.
134~As a repository manager, I want to know any event that occurred to a content file for any of my repository's objects.
372~As a DAMS manager, I want to indicate to preservation managers aspects of a master file useful for monitoring its integrity, and impending obsolescence, including file size, creation date, file format and format version.
114~As a DAMS manager, I want to indicate to preservation managers the checksum and checksum method for each master file for a given object.
142~As a DAMS manager, I want to indicate the source capture information for a file where it is useful to do so.
1874~As a DAMS manager, I want to know, via preservation managers, of any object for which integrity or authenticity is in question or that has been updated to a more current file format.
39~As a user, I want access to content files that comprise an object, so that I can decide whether a file is too large to download.
510~As a repository manager, I want to provide a title, in all useful forms, for my repository's collections, objects, and object components.
336~As a repository manager, I want to know any changes occurring to titles for repository's collections, objects, and object components.
7~As a DAMS manager, I want to present collections, objects, and object components by title.
13~As a user, I want to search collections, objects, and object components by title.
32~As a repository manager, I want to indicate for an object or object component the place of publication, the publisher, edition, etc., when pertinent.
100~As a repository manager, I want to know of any changes made to the origin Info for an object, including its component parts.
43~As a user, I want to know for an object or its component parts the place of publication, the publisher, etc.
70~As a repository manager, I want to describe various facets of a collection, object, or object component that are not addressable via title, date, name, and subject entities.
481~As a repository manager, I want to know of all modifications made to notes for my repository's collections, objects, or object components.
223317~As a user, I want to know about various facets of a collection, object, or object component, such as scope and content, various identifiers, conditions governing use or access, etc.
21~As a repository manager, I want to indicate the language(s) for present in a collection, object, or object component.
212~As a repository manager, I want to know of any changes made to language(s) indicated for a collection, object, or object component.
21~As a user, I want to scope my searches for collections, objects, or object components to a specific language.
1367~As a repository manager, I want to register a name record for each unique identity associated with my repository's collections and objects.
4~As a user, I want to search by for collections and objects by name.
56~As a repository manager, I want to indicate that a name pertinent to a collection, object, or object component has a specific role, such as illustrator, photographer, etc.
29~As a user, I want to scope by searches by name to a specific role such as illustrator, photographer, etc.
50~As a repository manager, I want to indicate all subjects that are pertinent to a collection, object, or object component.
5242~As a user, I want to search for collections, objects, and object components by pertinent such headings, including title, topic, genre or form, geographical name, function, occupation, name, cartographics, etc.
5~As a repository manager, I want to indicate the geo coordinates for any resource that believe useful to an end user.
290~As a user, I want to see the geographical context of a collection, object, or object component, where pertinent.
222~As a repository manager, I want to indicate all other pertinent versions or descriptions of a resource that are external to the DAMS.
12~As a user, I want to know of all other pertinent versions or descriptions of the resource.
40~As a repository manager, I want to know if the checksum for any of my repository's content files that have changed.
49~As a DAMS manager, I want to know, via the preservation manager, of all files for which the checksum has changed since last registered.
6~As a repository manager, I want to know, where pertinent, the hardware and software used to generate a content file.
4549~As a DAMS manager, I want to know what objects or object components are still under copyright and cannot be displayed without either a license or incurring risk.
48~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when copyright for an object or object component is likely to expire per jurisdictional copyright statute.
21~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when the copyright status for an object or object component is modified, either manually or automatically.
40~As a user, I want to know if an object or object component is under copyright and, where possible, who the rights holder is.
38~As a DAMS manager, I want to know all the statutes pertinent to an object or object component.
108~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when the pertinence of a statute to a object or object component is scheduled to expire.
54~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when the application of a statute to an object or object component has been modified, either manually or automatically.
10~As a DAMS manager, I want to know if copyrighted content has an applicable license.
328~As a DAMS manager, I want to know if an object or object component is subject to a library policy that restricts access in any way.
84~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when application of a library policy to an object or object component is scheduled to expire.
42~As a DAMS manager, I want to know if application of a library policy to an object or object component has been modified, either manually or automatically.
140~As a DAMS manager, I want to know all the uses for an object or object component that are permitted or restricted per the rights status of the object or object component.
6~As a DAMS manager, I want know the dates for when a permission or restriction is active.
100~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when permitted and restricted acts and or their active dates are modified.
44~As a DAMS manager, I want to track all events scheduled for recording in the DAMS.
10~As a DAMS manager, I want to know the agent(s) responsible for carrying out an event.
2~As a DAMS manager, I want to know when the event occurred.
30~As a DAMS manager, I want to know the outcome of the event, for example, object NN was deleted.
6~As an archivist, I want to apply a license or rights statement, so that I know what I can do with a file.
8~As an archivist, I want to mark individual files as restricted, so that they don't get shared by mistake.
8~As an archivist, I want to mark groups of files as restricted, so that they don't get shared by mistake.
2~As an archivist, I want to restrict a file from view.
3~As an archivist, I want to restrict a group of files from view.
456~As an archivist, I want to set a date on which restrictions will be removed from a file, so that that I don't have to update this by hand.
2~As an archivist, I want to add restriction end date information to files, so that I can share files when they become open.
3~As an archivist, I want to add detailed restrictions to groups of files, so that I know if and how they can be shared.
72~As an archivist, I want to restrict access to some files by IP address, so that I can give reading room access only to certain digital files.
10~As an archivist, I want to restrict access to certain files by user, so that I can allow donor representatives to see certain files.
3~As an archivist, I want to know if a photo has already been scanned, so that I can license it to a researcher.
6~As an archivist, I want to select existing rights statuses and statements, so that I can easily create uniform rights statements.
27~As an archivist, I want to redact information in digital files for a period of time, so that I can provide access to non sensitive portions of a record.
50~As an archivist, I want to have an online form for licensing archival material, so that the process is more transparent and some of the back and forth can be eliminated.
2~As an archivist, I want to batch edit metadata about files.
6~As an archivist, I want to upload a single file.
1~As an archivist, I want to upload groups of files, so that I can save time.
3~As an archivist, I want to automatically create access copies of files, so that I don't have to do this manually.
1~As an archivist, I want to automatically generate technical metadata, so that I know the file size.
3544~As an assistant archivist, I want to upload and tag staff generated working papers, so that staff and researchers are able to easily access them.
2924~As an archivist, I want to distinguish between digital objects digitized to preservation standards and those created for access purposes only, so that I know whether I should apply preservation actions.
3~As an archivist, I want to link electronic versions of researchers' publications to citations, so that I can share them with other researchers.
65~As an archivist, I want to upload scans of images created while answering research requests, so that they can be used again for other research requests.
2~As an archivist, I want to create quality scans of images and documents, so that they can be reused.
3~As an archivist, I want to automatically create access derivatives of digital objects, so that I don't have to do this manually.
12~As an archivist, I want to automatically assign unique identifiers to material I scan, so that I avoid potential errors.
2~As an archivist, I want to automatically embed metadata in file headers, so that I avoid repetitive and easily forgotten tasks.
1~As an archivist, I want to rotate images, so that I can orient them correctly.
35~As an archivist, I want to apply automatic contrast and level operations to a scanned file, so that I can eliminate unnecessary work.
102~As an archivist, I want to perform contrast, level and other manipulations manually, so that I can improve on results from automated tools.
18~As a donor representative, I want to supply incremental accruals to new and existing collections, so that material can be transferred on an ongoing basis.
114~As an archivist, I want to manage scans of archival material created for educational visits, so that find and refer to them for another visit.
54~As an archivist, I want to manage loan documentation, including preservation photos, forms and correspondence, so that I can find it easily later.
4~As a researcher, I want to generate structured citation data, so that so I can cite a file in a publication.
80~As a researcher, I want to share a link to a file on social media, so that so I can show other people an interesting thing I found.
2~As a researcher, I want to understand the copyright status of the image, so that I know if I can use it.
2~As a researcher I want clear citation information on each document, so that I can cite accurately in a publication.
6~As a researcher, I want to share reports I've written, so that it is available to staff and researchers.
56~As a researcher, I want to download a file, so that I can use it for research without having to come to the reading room.
2~As a researcher, I want to download reports, so that I can use them in immediate and future in talks and articles.
48~As a researcher, I want to locate photographs and documents that I can share on social media.
2~As a researcher, I want to request analog versions of digital objects, so that I can view them in the reading room.
1~As a researcher, I want to order copies of photos, so that I can use them in a publication.
60~As a researcher, I want to receive a notification if something I request in the reading room or for duplication is already digitized, so that I don't have to put in that request.
72~As an archivist, I want to make information about rights available to researchers and donors, so that they know what they can do with images.
6~As an archivist, I want to ensure that emails sent about specific objects contain accurate citation information, so that I can confirm which object is being referred to.
32~As a researcher, I want to stream audio and video files in my web browser.
40~As a researcher, I want to export descriptive data in a common format, so that I can use text mining tools on it.
7~As an archivist, I want to track use of a photo, so that I know if I've sent it to a researcher before.
18~As an archivist, I want to see what a particular user has downloaded, so that I can track use of assets.
9~As an archivist, I want to provide access to digital copies of unprocessed material, so that donors can access things they have given us.
118~As an archivist, I want to make as much archival material as possible available for use, so that I can fulfill the RAC's mission.
14~As an archivist, I want to use archival content on the RAC website, so that I can integrate our collections into our web presence.
60~As a donor representative, I want to access the descriptive information about the images scanned for my institutions needs.
408~As a donor representative, I want to look at images that have been scanned from my collection, so that so that I can use them in my institutions exhibits, reports etc.
6~As a researcher, I want to search all files by keyword.
24~As a researcher, I want to search by keyword, so that I can learn what already exists digitally and avoid placing additional duplication requests.
2~As a researcher, I want to see common material across collections, so that so I can prepare a comprehensive analysis.
2~As a researcher, I want to browse through files in a collection.
2~As an archivist, I want to browse through files in a collection.
6~As an archivist, I want to search all files by keyword.
1~As an archivist, I want to upload inventories, so that our donor representatives have an easier time requesting their material.
11~As an archivist, I want to search by tag, so that it makes finding particular photographs easier.
2~As an archivist, I want to access the digital files on the X drive, so that I can use them.
1~As an assistant archivist, I want to easily access interdepartmental forms.
48~As an archivist, I want to have electronic versions of the collection files available for staff use, so that I increase accessibility and I do not lose the original files.
5~As a researcher, I want to be able to search across photo collection images, so that I can prepare presentations.
120~As a researcher, I want to search using structured data, so that I can find everything relevant to my inquiry across collections.
2~As a researcher, I want to access tagged working papers, so that my research process is better informed.
2~As a researcher, I want to access educational outreach materials, so that I can make connections with institutions.
1~As a researcher, I want to have accurate cross collection citation information, so that I can find materials again.
4~As a researcher, I want to access digitized archival materials without mediation, so that I can decide what, I want to look at.
486~As an archivist, I want to distinguish between images scanned in color or black and white, so that I know whether or not these images meet publication requirements.
6~As a researcher, I want to ask a question about a specific file, so that I can find out more information.
12~As a researcher, I want to search OCRed text in all available digitized textual documents, so that I can more efficiently locate digitized documents relevant to my research.
726~As a researcher, I want to know the date on which something was digitized, so that I know if it's been digitized since I last looked.
147~As a researcher, I want to keyword search across all of an RF program officer's scanned diaries, rather than having to search each scanned diary segment separately, so that I can more efficiently locate diary entries relevant to my research.
4~As an archivist, I want to access inventories for unprocessed collections, so that I can provide reference services to donors.
12~As a researcher, I want to view thumbnails of photos, so that I can make a selection of which one I want to license.
15~As a researcher, I want to know when only part of a folder has been digitized, so that I know if I am seeing everything or only a portion.
3~As a donor representative, I want to see thumbnails of images, so that I can select which one I want.
1~As an researcher, I want to view film clips, so that I can see excerpts of films.
2~As an archivist, I want to search images by photographer.
15~As an archivist, I want to search images by people represented in them.
11~As an archivist, I want to search images by place the photo was taken.
3~As an archivist, I want to search images by rights.
8~As an archivist, I want to search index cards and other non public finding aids, so that I can provide better research assistance.
2~As an archivist, I want to view collection files, so that I can gain background information for processing a collection.
4~As an archivist, I want to view physical locations for non archival material, so that I can provide research services to donors.
99~As an archivist, I want to find files that cannot be made publicly available, so that I can easily access everything that's been digitized.
6~As an archivist, I want to access metadata and visual representations of index cards, so that I can use that information to assist researchers.
8~As an archivist, I want to search individual material types.
253~As an archivist, I want to search images by uploading an image, so that so I can find images when i don't have any metadata.
1~As an administrator, I want to create user groups, so that I can control user permissions.
1~As an administrator, I want to create user roles, so that I can group users by role.
16~As an administrator, I want to assign RAC staff to different user groups, so that I can control read or write access.
6~As an administrator, I want to assign rights to user groups or roles, so that I can control what users can and can't do.
3270~As an administrator, I want to allow users to log in using Active Directory credentials, so that I don't have to manage another set of usernames and passwords.
6~As an administrator, I want to have researchers reset their own passwords, so that I don't have to send passwords in cleartext.
105~As an administrator, I want to limit who can see certain metadata fields, so that I can show or hide things from display based on user groups.
2~As a faculty member, I want to access a collection within the repository, so that I can obtain research materials.
190~As a faculty member, I want to direct students to an item within the repository, so that I can facilitate my teaching (that is desires ability to link to content).
252~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to upload data to the repository and associate it with a publication, so that I receive attribution for my data as well as my publications.
84~As a patron, I want to know which reports or datasets are coming out when, so that I can access latest report or dataset.
2~As a patron, I want to select or deselect reports or datasets to be emailed, possibly many at one time, when new versions are available.
262~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to mark report or dataset not to be emailed or viewable due to error being discovered.
306~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to manage report or dataset name changes so patrons are able to find historic reports that have a different name from current report.
69~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to see clearly what reuse rights I have to files discovered in the repository, so that I know how I can reuse them.
69~As a library staff member, I want to apply or remove an access embargo to an item when asked to do this by an item author.
19812~As a researcher, I want to stay up to date on research related to a given topic at Cornell, including those in other departments or schools, so that my own research remains relevant and innovative.
8~As a faculty member, I want to easily collect my publications both those within the repository and without into a single online access point, so that I can raise the profile of my work.
756652~As a crossdeptprojteammember, I want to have a better place to collect and share project materials, with a range of organization or tagging and access options, including private (internal group use only), University and public.
1208~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to upload data and provide a cut and paste formatted citation for people who use it, so that I receive proper attribution for my work.
50~As a patron, I want to view or upload content in multiple formats, including old formats such as Lotus Works.
16~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to search the repository and browse through its contents on my phone, so that I can check things on the go.
16~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to login remotely to the repository using Shibboleth, so that I can get remote access to Cornell campus only content.
156~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to have some control over how items within my collection sort in collection contents lists, so that I can control how my work is presented.
291~As an administrator, I want to be able to use systems such as Symplectic Elements and Activity Insight to properly track faculty scholarly output in the repositories, so that I can facilitate personnel decisions.
23432~As a library staff member, I want to access useful and comprehensive usage statistics and analytics, including altmetrics, at the repository, collection, author, and item level, so that I can assess the results of this service.
4~As an administrator, I want to see comprehensive tracking statistics that can be presented to faculty in a digestible way, so that I can increase buy in for contributing their work.
7564~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to be notified if someone downloads any of my items or files, so that I can follow usage and see what others are most interested in reading.
78~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to see list of subscribers for specified report in order research missing report complaints.
752~As an administrator, I want to disseminate the aforementioned works in a digital space that is strongly branded, so that I can make sure my school is credited for the work.
21~As a faculty member, I want to upload my scholarly work to the repository, so that I can have a persistent URL that can be used for my personal web page and CV.
30~As a library staff member, I want to create collections which highlight rare, archival, or endangered material, so that I can preserve and provide access to this material.
3546~As an Extension Administrator, I want to have easy, well documented and supported workflows that can be easily passed on to others when she or others retire, so that continuity can be maintained.
389~As a faculty member, I want to maintain versioning of Extension brochures, FAQs, etc., so that only the most current are used or adapted by other CCE Educators in their work.
48~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to upload a data file and put a CC By or CC0 license on it, so that my licensing desires are clearly stated.
1386~As a library staff member, I want to be able to tell the researchers I'm helping with DMPs that Cornell has a repository system I can use for archiving and sharing results of their research, so that I can easily meet the needs of funder DMP requirements.
184~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to create a collection for my documents, or my organization's documents, and apply some distinctive branding to that collection, so that I can promote my work, or that of my organization.
100~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to easily find all the items in the repository that I have authored, by searching on my name (author name authority and or identification issue), because I keeps my publications in the repository up to date and points people tithe repository.
60~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to see items I have deposited in the repository appear high up in Google search results, because that's my ticket to stardom.
40~As a repository support team member, I want to alias (or map) an item from one collection to another (so the item will appear to belong to both collections), because the collection owner has asked them to.
32~As a researcher, I want to discover items in the repository through the library's discovery system and Google, so that I can facilitate my easy use of the content.
88~As a researcher, I want to see descriptive metadata for the item whether I come to the item through the repository or directly to the PDF, so that I can correctly identify the source of the content.
12~As a researcher, I want to contact the author of a work that interests me, so that I can learn more about my research.
4~As a researcher, I want to receive updates when new works are published in a given collection or by a given author, so that I can discover more of their work.
63~As a researcher, I want to search within a repository or collection in an effective manner, including searching within subsets of a given collection, so that I can facilitate my use of the collection.
18~As an academicresearcher, I want to find the works of a particular author in one easily sortable spot, so that I can see the evolution of their scholarship over time.
157~As an academicresearcher, I want to the thesis paper of an influential judge or legal thinker to gain insight into how their initial scholarship got started.
12~As a patron, I want to search for report or dataset with keywords or a partial or complete title to locate needed report or dataset.
11~As a patron, I want to browse content by author or subject area to locate needed resources.
48~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to manage subject classifications for ease of patron browsing and searching.
4~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to manage customizable relationship groups in support of patron see also option.
40~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to search for the dissertations in the repository for which I have been a thesis committee member, to quickly find work by a former student.
34~As a library staff member, I want to make digital items held in trusted external system searchable within our system, so that I can provide seamless access to disparate collections.
12~As a researcher, I want to have information that will help me identify other faculty I might partner or collaborate with.
2560~As an externaluser, I want to easily find and access research and educational materials from Cornell faculty related to a particular topic, which I can use to develop stronger research or evidence based programming, grant proposals, community policy, or business practices.
1188~As a student, I want to learn who at Cornell has or is engaged in research related to a particular topic, so that I can decide if I would like to pursue studies or research at Cornell.
282~As a student, I want to learn who at Cornell has or is engaged in research related to a particular topic, so that I can find an appropriate advisor, choose which courses to enroll in, and identify work or internship opportunities.
18~As a teachingfacultymember, I want to identify timely and relevant research suitable for use in my curriculum, and be notified of new research or content.
1716~As a patron, I want to view multiple versions of a report or dataset to get both timely and historical information.
48~As a faculty member, I want to upload my scholarly work to the repository, so that I can reach a non academic audience, expand my influence within my academic community, and use it for teaching.
5~As a library staff member, I want to upload material to the repository on the author's behalf, so that I can fulfill a service obligation.
1544~As a library staff member, I want to create metadata for items within the repository that includes document title, description, author, document type, status, file locations, subscribable flag, subject area, release frequency, and keywords for searching.
9~As a library staff member, I want to upload large batches of items simultaneously, including descriptive metadata, so that I can offer service to authors efficiently.
102~As a library staff member, I want to upload an item to the repository that will only become visible after a specific embargo period has expired, so that I can comply with author or publisher requirements.
507~As a library staff member, I want to include supplementary files such as datasets, slideshows, etc with DOIs for each, as needed when uploading a given work, so that I can provide a robust image of the work in question.
480~As a library staff member, I want to deliver streaming media from within the repository, so that I can deliver such content in the manner expected and ensure continued access to said content.
210~As an administrator, I want to have a platform that can support a variety of media file and text based formats, so that the intellectual output of the school can be showcased and preserved in a more comprehensive way.
16~As a library staff member, I want to be able to assign an item to more than one collection.
5989~As a library staff member, I want to be able to add custom metadata fields for deposits I make on behalf of researchers to allow for better search capabilities.
70~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to upload revised report or dataset due to error in report or document.
6~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to upload new version of report or dataset while retaining previous versions for patron use.
185928~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to have the system recognize or categorize document type (for example historical report still published, expired historical report, single topic dataset, broad topic dataset, report with subtopic, computer file), so that report or dataset is processed and displayed properly.
1263~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to easily assign a CC license to the files I are depositing, so that users know how the materials can be used.
132~As a repository support team member, I want to export a set of records and associated files, manipulate this data set, and reload into the system, because I am aware of a uniform error in a collection.
72~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to associate a researcherID or ORCID with a submission, so that there is no ambiguity between my work and someone else with the same name.
1463~As a student, I want to upload to the repository the data that is associated with my embargoed dissertation to meet requirements of a DMP I submitted with my NSF DDIG.
141~As a library staff member, I want to have customizable metadata fields, so that each project is described in the most accurate way possible.
705~As a faculty member, I want to associate files with my scholarly works such that someone accessing the latter also receives access to the former, so that I can deliver the fullest picture of my research.
17360~As a library staff member, I want to use content and metadata from the repository in other systems and or web pages easily, so that I can deliver such content in the manner best fit to the audience or occasion.
336~As an Extension Administrator, I want to make resources that were developed for specific projects and geographic areas available to other faculty and educators across NYS.
14400~As an Extension Administrator or Staff Content Manager, I want to get periodic IR reminders, including when something needs attention (including next ingestion or approval steps), or something that might need to move from a current knowledge collection to Historical.
8~As a researcher, I want to promote or share my work through interactive maps, so that I can display the range and extent of my work graphically.
95232~As an Extension Educator, I want to have a place to store a variety of documents, presentations and data sets I've created, that doesn't require an extra step in making available on my own County or Region or Project site (that is a list or directory of materials there is automatically updated when placed in a central archive or repository).
5668~As a patron, I want to know other reports or datasets that are related (for example see also) to report or dataset being viewed for the purpose finding other related information.
30~As a patron, I want to know previous name(s) and publication date range (first version last version) of reports or datasets, so that I can know what historical versions are available and how current more recent version is.
5~As a patron, I want to create a personal account to request email notification when new version of report or dataset is available.
2~As a patron, I want to download report or dataset release calendar to load into own calendar.
714~As a librarydiscoveryoperator, I want to harvest useful metadata from the repository via OAI, and continue to do so incrementally, so that I can make Cornell publications discoverable in my repository.
37~As a library staff member, I want to quickly correct errors in uploaded metadata, and even uploaded documents, while leaving a record of my revisions (and possibly the reasons behind them), so that I can present correct versions of content and to locate points of error.
12~As a library staff member, I want to receive a quick response and a reasonable resolution to tech support issues, so that service can proceed with minimal interruption.
28198~As a Cornell faculty member, I want to share on the repository files that are larger than 1GB in a way that still allows users to download them if I want to use them, so that I can meet funder requirements.
36~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to login to personal account with access to authorized functions.
1548~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to have a personal account with the ability to change passwords to make them more secure or to retrieve forgotten ones.
72~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to set up or delete accounts for other administrators with various levels of permission.
68~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to see a list of all administrators for ease of administering accounts.
264~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to have robust searching and tracking features for existing and newly created patron accounts.
84~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to unpublish a report or dataset if requested to do so by USDA agency.
46~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to add future release dates of reports or datasets to calendar for patron FYI.
1~As a faculty member, I want to recommend a digital collection be built in the repository, so that I can assist in my research.
80~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to search for administrator accounts using full or partial email or name.
646111~As a DB or IR administrator, I want to administrate patron accounts for purpose of closing accounts, viewing subscriptions, changing subscriptions, resetting passwords, changing email address, etc.
460~As a library staff member, I want to create custom metadata fields for certain collections, and allow searching of those fields, so that I can best reflect and deliver diverse content.
3~As a repository support team member, I want to move a collection, so that I can fulfill the collection owner's request.
2~As a repository support team member, I want to rename a collection, so that I can fulfill the collection owner's request.
4~As an asset manager, I want to be assured that the digital copy I deposit is stored redundantly, so that when one copy suffers destruction or unwanted changes, I still have other good copies to restore from.
2~As an asset manager, I want to be assured that threats to copies in one repository are not automatically incurred by the redundant copies.
274~As an asset manager, I want to be assured that the redundant copies are continuously monitored for unwanted changes, and that if or when changes do occur, there is a mechanism by which I can determine the original object and restore it to all copies.
28~As an asset manager, I want to be assured that the assets can be taken out of the repository, and that the assets taken out are the same as those that are put in.
836~As an asset manager, I want to know what the intellectual value of the asset is to the institution at the time of deposit, so that I obtain guidance in the evaluation of it for current value for the institution.
2906~As an asset manager, I want to have a mechanism to obtain a listing or understanding of all the assets that have been deposited, and their current status.
13912~As an asset manager, I want to be assured that funding and staffing of the IR have a commitment to longevity of the repository through published plans and or explicit contract clauses.
20~As a stakeholder, I want to have files adequately described, so that I can successfully render them in my contemporary operating environment.
72~As a library staff member, I want to preserve both the content and the metadata within the repository in a robust manner, so that I can provide stable, long term access to this material.
288~As a data curator, I want to upload a new version of an item that has changed, while still allowing old versions to be accessed.
669~As a library staff member, I want to preserve the scholarship of the law school by using sustainable links that will not succumb to link rot, so that I can create a permanent digital archive for the scholarship of my institution.
80~As a library staff member, I want to create a collection, sometimes with custom metadata fields, so that I can house digital material for wider distribution.
34~As a library staff member, I want to trace the list of revisors to determine who uploaded an item to the repository, so that I can confirm that proper procedures were followed.
12~As an asset manager, I want to be assured that there is a formal plan for the disposition of assets if the IR should cease.
54~As an asset manager, I want to have mechanism to pass ownership or management of the assets to a successor.
7~As a patron, I want to email system provider to report issues and ask questions.
1140~As a data curator, I want to have a mechanism to allow for records scheduling for items that do not need to be stored indefinitely.
288~As a data curator, I want to upload a new version of an item that has changed, while still allowing old versions to be accessed.
8~As a user, I want to search and discover music using content identification or fingerprinting.
12~As a user, I want to search and discover music based on my profile.
72~As a user, I want to search and discover music based on other users similar to myself.
1414~As a user, I want to search and discover music or ringback tones similar to a given music video based on content similarity.
27114~As a user, I want to search and discover music by exploiting enriched metadata and image tags, so that I find related artists, new genre, or other relevant listening path.
146~As a user, I want to upload tagged videos and have tags available for all further processing steps.
7~As a user, I want to view thumbnail sequences of video segments.
10~As a user, I want to get info about similar video items and segments.
20~As a user, I want to get info about perceptually similar video items and segments.
7~As a user, I want to receive content recommendations from similar profiles.
148~As a user, I want to receive content recommendations based on most relevant news events in my area.
14~As a user, I want to identify persons in videos, and receive related information about them.
14~As a user, I want to identify products in videos, and receive related information about them.
14~As a user, I want to identify broadcaster logos in videos, and receive related information about them.
14~As a user, I want to identify brands in videos, and receive related information about them.
18~As a user, I want to take a picture or upload an image, so that I am recommended with videos related to that picture or image.
200~As a user, I want to walk around, access content using a geographical map and be informed if there are videos covering the area, monuments or any other relevant point of interest.
72~As a user, I want to search content items using automatic speech recognition.
2~As an admin, I want to see, validate and edit segmentation of videos.
11~As an admin, I want to annotate news video segments and extract a topic for each segment.
104~As an admin, I want to filter and rank videos based on A or V quality aspects.
8~As an admin, I want to get a quick assessment of whether audio material has been edited before the upload.
8~As an admin, I want to prefilter nudity content.
123~As an admin, I want to prefilter content using search based on low level asset information.
2~As an admin, I want to automatically validated the ingested contents for copyright infringement.
16912~As an admin, I want to prefilter the content using search on high level asset information such as metadata and tags either recognized by the system of provided by the user.
5008~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to assess how interesting or appealing or complex a picture is based on automated analysis, citizen annotations, and comments on Talk.
317~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to detect when a scientist should be prompted to look at a subject, based on annotations and information from Talk comments.
2~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to identify volunteer types.
84~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to preclassify the Galaxy Zoo images using simple low level image features.
32~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to automatically detect Snapshot Serengeti images with no classifiable animals in them.
1200~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic image series detection for the case of timestamping malfunction in Snapshot Serengeti images.
88~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic animal species preclassification in Snapshot Serengeti.
24~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic animal attribute preclassification in Snapshot Serengeti.
24~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic animal number detection in Snapshot Serengeti.
108~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic segmentation or localization of plankton in Plankton Portal.
32~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to automatically detect Plankton Portal images with no classifiable plankton in them.
268~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic detection of plankton size or orientation in Plankton Portal images.
76~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic preclassification of plankton species in Plankton Portal images.
32~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform automatic worm motion analysis to reduce video duration in Worm Watch Lab.
56~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to automatically detect the time in a Worm Watch Lab video where the worm lays an egg.
230~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to detect important features such as areas of flooding, damage, temporary shelters, blocked roads etc in the satellite images.
124~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to assess the probability or weight of a volunteer's classification based on their experience.
178~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to perform prefiltering of the images to remove artefacts such as bright stars and camera read errors.
24~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to detect moving and transient objects in the images.
44~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to remove background noise and distracting sounds from the audio files.
8~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to group whale calls that are similar.
28~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to identify the number of whales heard in a single audio file.
12~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know when I should interrupt a volunteer.
140~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know whether I should interrupt a volunteer with text, an image, or a video.
4~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know when I should educate a volunteer.
60~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know whether I should educate a volunteer with text, an image, or a video.
85~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know which piece of education I should give to a volunteer.
20~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know when a volunteer has made an interesting comment on a subject.
16~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know when Zoonibot should comment on a subject.
4~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know when Zoonibot should give an explanation.
8~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to know what Zoonibot should say to a volunteer.
6~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to group subjects by similarity.
40~As a Zooniverse admin, I want to recommend different projects to volunteers based on their previous experiences.
1~As an admin, I want to see a summary of articles, so that I reuse them.
4~Each movement command shall specify one of the following command types: SET MONITORING FREQUENCY SET STATE FREQUENCY
4~The Route Creation User Interface shall provide capabilities to modify existing routes.
16~The Map Component shall support different types of map layers (for example terrain satellite)
162~The User Interface Middleware accepts resend waypoint commands associated with a unique unmanned aerial vehicle ID and forwards to Dronology
32~unmanned aerial vehicle State messages shall be formatted as JSON objects and contain the unmanned aerial vehicle ID and the MODE
30~If a user attempts to create a route without providing a name then the system shall not save the route.
2~The display of active flight plans shall include time in flight traveled distance remaining distance completed and total waypoints.
2~The active flight plan shall be displayed at the top of the list of pending flight plans.
16~The Mission Planner shall execute flight plans for multiple unmanned aerial vehicles concurrently.
8~The properties that the ground control station sends to the ground control station Middleware shall be defined in JSON
384~The ground control station shall send the unmanned aerial vehicle's current properties to the ground control station Middleware when they are received from the unmanned aerial vehicle.
32~The ground control station requests the unmanned aerial vehicle's properties every unmanned aerial vehicle MESSAGE MONITORING FREQUENCY seconds.
16~The ground control station shall transmit the unmanned aerial vehicle's properties to the ground control station Middleware
384~The ground control station shall send the unmanned aerial vehicle's current coordinates to the ground control station Middleware when they are received from the unmanned aerial vehicle.
64~The ground control station requests the unmanned aerial vehicle's current coordinates every unmanned aerial vehicle MESSAGE STATE FREQUENCY seconds.
32~The ground control station shall transmit the unmanned aerial vehicle's current location to the ground control station Middleware
896~After unmanned aerial vehicle RECONNECT TIMEOUT has been reached if connection to the unmanned aerial vehicle can not be reestablished the ground control station shall send a unmanned aerial vehicle Timeout message containing the unmanned aerial vehicle ID to the ground control station Middleware.
80~If the connection to an unmanned aerial vehicle is lost and the ground control station fails to reconnect the ground control station shall notify the ground control station Middleware.
640~If the ground control station receives notification that the unmanned aerial vehicle is incorrectly registered then the ground control station closes the connection with the unmanned aerial vehicle.
8~The ground control station shall send the home location a time stamp and the unmanned aerial vehicle ID to the ground control station Middleware.
28~The ground control station shall report newly connected unmanned aerial vehicles to the ground control station Middleware.
48~When the ground control station receives a set frequency command from the ground control station Middleware it shall adjust its messange frequency accordingly.
1~Message frequency shall be defined in units of seconds.
4~The default message frequency for unmanned aerial vehicle state messages shall be unmanned aerial vehicle MESSAGE STATE FREQUENCY
4~The default message frequency for unmanned aerial vehicle monitoring messages shall be unmanned aerial vehicle MESSAGE MON FREQUENCY
60~The ground control station shall assign a message frequency for all unmanned aerial vehicles.
4~The ground control station shall transform commands into a vehicle specific format.
192~When the ground control station receives a unmanned aerial vehicle command from the ground control station Middleware the ground control station shall forward the command to the respective unmanned aerial vehicle.
210~When a socket error or time out occurs all unmanned aerial vehicles associated with the ground control station shall be deactivated.
5656~When the connection to the ground control station from the ground control station Middleware is lost the ground control station Middleware shall notify Dronology and deactivate all associated unmanned aerial vehicles.
1~The TAKEOFF command shall specify the target altitude
50~The SET VELOCITY shall specify a velocity vector specified using NED (North East Down) directions.
12~The SET GROUNDSPEED command shall specify ground speed in meters per second.
2~The GOTO WAYPOINT command shall include a target latitude longitude and altitude coordinate
4~Each movement command shall specify one of the following command types: GOTO WAYPOINT SET GROUNDSPEED SET VELOCITY TAKEOFF LAND HOVER
5~Each command shall include a unique unmanned aerial vehicle ID
24~The ground control station Middleware shall forward commands sent from Dronology to a ground control station
384~The ground control station Middleware shall be able to handle and send a setStateFrequency command to the respective ground control station containing the desired Frequency in ms.
384~The ground control station Middleware shall be able to handle and send a setMonitoringFrequency command to the respective ground control station containing the desired Frequency in ms.
60~unmanned aerial vehicle State messages shall be formatted as JSON objects and contain both mandatory and optional elements.
32~unmanned aerial vehicle Monitoring messages shall be formatted as JSON objects and contain arbitrary information regarding a single unmanned aerial vehicle.
444~The ground control station Middleware shall handle state messages monitoring messages and mode change messages received from an ground control station.
88~When the activation request is denied the ground control station Middleware shall send a predefined activation denied message to the ground control station.
44~When the activation request is approved the ground control station Middleware shall send a predefined activation confirmation message to the ground control station.
2~The ground control station shall be informed of the result of the activation request.
72~The ground control station Middleware shall call the unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager to request unmanned aerial vehicle activation.
144~In step three the ground control station announces its current set of recognized unmanned aerial vehicles to the ground control station Middleware.
2~In step two the ground control station Middleware accepts the connection and sends a handshake message.
133~The ground control station Middleware shall follow a predefined set of steps to establish a connection between a ground control station and Dronology
173~Each ground control station connecting to the ground control station Middleware shall be identified through a unique GROUNDSTATION ID.
8~The ground control station Middleware shall only accept one connection for each ground control station.
25~The ground control station Middleware shall accept connections with multiple ground control station 
80~The ground control station Middleware shall specify a predefined ground control station PORT where ground control station can connect.
13~The ground control station Middleware shall handle multiple ground control station
1549~A monitoring message shall contain a (hierarchical) identifier describing the topic a message type a timestamp and arbitrary serializeable data attached to the message
14~The Dronology Runtime Monitor shall be able to receive messages from any Dronology component
1850~The Dronology Runtime Monitor shall provide means to define wildcards that is a client receives messages from all topics associated with the wildcard
108~Topics shall be organized in a hierarchical manner meaning that clients can subscribe to all messages messages from certain ground control station unmanned aerial vehicles and properties
3~Clients shall be able to subscribe to any number of topics
4~When a new monitoring message is received the Dronology Runtime Monitor shall forward the message to all subscribed clients
12~The Dronology Runtime Monitor shall provide functionality to retrieve monitoring messages and distribute them to clients
136~When the unmanned aerial vehicle's battery level drops below a predefined threshold then the unmanned aerial vehicle health indicator is activated.
2~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall notify users when an emergency occurs.
1190~When user interface follow mode is active the map should continually zoom and pan so that all selected unmanned aerial vehicles are centered and their active routes constitutes 60% of the view.
14~When user interface follow mode is initiated the map shall automatically zoom and pan so that all selected unmanned aerial vehicles are centered and their active routes constitutes 60% of the view.
120~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall allow users to follow one or multiple unmanned aerial vehicles on the map.
1120~When requested by the user the user interface shall apply the requested emergency action to all selected unmanned aerial vehicles if no unmanned aerial vehicle is selected the user interface shall apply the emergency action to all unmanned aerial vehicles by default.
6048~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall allow users to perform emergency operations (for example hovering multiple unmanned aerial vehicles sending multiple unmanned aerial vehicles to home) to a group of unmanned aerial vehicles
6~Operations shall include RTL takeoff hover in place and resend command.
320~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall allow users to apply flight operations to one or more selected unmanned aerial vehicles.
2~The user interface shall differentiate between completed current and not yet traversed flight segments.
24~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall display all currently active flight plans on the map.
360~The user interface shall periodically request current locations of all registered unmanned aerial vehicles from the User Interface Middleware and update their locations on the map.
36~For each activated unmanned aerial vehicle the user interface shall display information about that unmanned aerial vehicle (that is longitude latitude altitude groud speed battery level etc.) 
4~Different types of unmanned aerial vehicles shall have different icons.
1296~When the map is loaded and the all active unmanned aerial vehicles list is obtained the User Interface Real Time Flight View shall display an icon on the map for each registered unmanned aerial vehicle based on its current location.
420~When the Real Time Flight User Interface is loaded a map shall be displayed with the default zoom level and center coordinates specified in a configuration file.
80~The user interface shall periodically request the list of all activated unmanned aerial vehicles from the User Interface Middleware and updates the display of currently activated unmanned aerial vehicles
1024~"Upon loading the user interface shall request information about all activated unmanned aerial vehicles from the User Interface Middleware, Once the User Interface Middleware respond to the request the user interface shall display a list of all currently activated unmanned aerial vehicles."
42~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall display the name and status of all currently activated unmanned aerial vehicles
28~When the Route Creation User Interface is loaded a list of all existing routes shall be displayed.
15~When the user presses the route delete button a confirmation message shall be displayed and if confirmed by the user then the route shall be deleted.
6~The Route Creation User Interface shall allow a user to delete a route.
8~When selected by the user multiple routes shall be displayed simultaneously on the map.
2~Consecutive waypoints in a route on a map shall be connected by lines.
64~The Route Creation User Interface shall support route creation and modification in visual mode allowing the user to click on a location in order to create modify or delete a waypoint. 
336~The Route Creation User Interface shall support route creation and modification in tabular mode by displaying a editable table showing each waypoint and the velocity of the unmanned aerial vehicle approaching the waypoint.
10~The Route Creation User Interface shall allow the user to create and modify a route.
40~The route information shall be represented using the Standard Route XML format and transmitted to the User Interface Middleware
16~When requested the Route Creation User Interface shall send a newly created or modified route to dronology.
5~The user interface shall provide respective fields for displaying and modifying the ID textual description waypoints and other route information.
216~Each route shall include a unique ID a textual description and a set of waypoints all of which are editable in the user interface.
288~The altitude and speed values shall not exceed the current maximum unmanned aerial vehicle MAX ALTITUDE unmanned aerial vehicle MAX GROUND SPEED set in the system.
10~The Route Creation User Interface shall only accept valid altitude and speed values for waypoint.
8~Waypoint colors shall be updated as the flight route is edited (for example when a new first or last waypoint is added) If current edits are canceled the colors shall be reset to reflect current waypoints.
72~The Route Creation User Interface shall distinguser interfacesh between starting ending and intermediate waypoint markers.
14~When the user presses the cancel pending flight plan button a request is sent to the User Interface Middleware to cancel the flight.
8~Each unmanned aerial vehicle shall have a cancel pending flight plan button associated with it.
2~When a user shall cancels a pending flight plan the Route Assignment User Interface shall notify Dronology.
160~Flight plans assigned to an unmanned aerial vehicle that have not yet been executed may be deleted by selecting the route and clicking the deselect button.
184~Flight plans assigned to an unmanned aerial vehicle that have not yet been executed may be reordered by dragging a route within the list of assigned routes to a new position.
208~A user may reorder routes or remove flight plans assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle as long as the flight has not started execution.
4~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is selected the Route Assignment User Interface shall display its active flight plans.
2092~When the user requests to view flight plans assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle the user interface requests the pending flight plans from the unmanned aerial vehicle FlightInfo object and displays them.
120~When detailed information is requested by the user for a unmanned aerial vehicle the user interface shall request the unmanned aerial vehicle Data object from the User Interface Middleware.
72~When requested by the user the Route Assignment User Interface shall display details about the selected unmanned aerial vehicle and its flight plans.
72~When route assignments are removed from a unmanned aerial vehicle a request shall be sent to the User Interface Middleware to remove the assignment in Dronology.
28~When a route is assigned or removed from a unmanned aerial vehicle the Route Assignment User Interface shall notify Dronology.
4044~A route shall be assigned to a selected unmanned aerial vehicle using the mouse to drag and drop or double clicking on the route.
10~The user shall select a unmanned aerial vehicle and then assign routes to it from an available route list.
56~The Route Assignment User Interface shall provide means to select an existing routes and assign them to a unmanned aerial vehicle.
208~Before issuser interfaceng commands to an unmanned aerial vehicle the Vaadin User Interface shall request control via the User Interface Middleware.
2~When loading the map view it shall be positioned at the predefined location
12~When the Vaadin User Interface is activated the Vaadin User Interface shall be configured according to stored configuration parameters.
8~The User Interface Middleware shall forward a mission plan request to dronology.
4~The User Interface Middleware shall accept and activate a mission plan upon request.
184~The User Interface Middleware shall assign the list of waypoints from a route to an active unmanned aerial vehicle in order to create a flight plan.
72~The User Interface Middleware shall enable an existing route to be assigned to an active unmanned aerial vehicle.
24~When requested by a user interface client the User Interface Middleware shall support the modification of an existing flight route with an given ID.
8~When requested by a user interface client the User Interface Middleware shall create a new flight route with a unique ID.
8~The User Interface Middleware shall enable the creation and modification of flight routes
522~The User Interface Middleware accepts return to home commands associated with a unique unmanned aerial vehicle ID and forwards to Dronology
150~The User Interface Middleware accepts takeoff commands associated with a unique unmanned aerial vehicle ID and forwards to Dronology
48~The User Interface Middleware accepts hover in place commands associated with a unique unmanned aerial vehicle ID and forwards to Dronology
20~The User Interface Middleware accepts commands from user interfaces and forwards to Dronology
2~The User Interface Middleware retrieves and returns a list of previously saved flight routes
14~The User Interface Middleware shall provide a list of all existing routes
12192~The User Interface Middleware returns a list of unmanned aerial vehicle proxy objects containing information about all active unmanned aerial vehicles including location battery level ground speed and health status.
8~The User Interface Middleware shall provide a list of all active unmanned aerial vehicles
810~If the heartbeat fails for a client holding one or more control locks after CLIENT HEARTBEAT TIME then the User Interface Middleware shall release all of its control locks.
424~The User Interface Middleware shall monitor liveness of clients holding control locks on individual unmanned aerial vehicles.
24~The user interface middleware shall forward control requests from user interface clients to release a control lock on a unmanned aerial vehicle.
24~The User Interface Middleware shall forward control requests from user interface clients to hold a control lock on a unmanned aerial vehicle.
10~A client shall register to the User Interface Middleware using a unique id
2~While the log level HW TRACE is active each state and monitoring message shall be logged.
2~Each connection request handshake and mode change message shall be logged
98~Each command sent to a ground control station via the ground control station Middleware shall be logged
368~The Activity Logger shall log all commands sent to and messages received from a ground control station.
2496~The timestamp and the type of action shall be logged into the mission log for each flight plan related event, This includes (1) time of scheduling (2) time of execution (3) time of completing plan (4) reordering plan (5) canceling plan
72~When a unmanned aerial vehicle reaches a waypoint while executing a flight plan a log event shall be created that includes the coordinates of the waypoint the unmanned aerial vehicle the flight plan is assigned to the flight plan ID and the timestamp.
96~When a flight plan is executed a log event shall be created that includes the name of the route the unmanned aerial vehicle it is assigned to and the execution time stamp.
96~When a flight plan is initiated a log event shall be created that includes the name of the route the unmanned aerial vehicle it is assigned to and the initiation time stamp.
2~The Activity Logger shall log all flight plan related events.
36~When a simulated unmanned aerial vehicle is in flight the NVEC Simulator shall reduce the battery every second by SIMULATOR BATTERY DRAIN VOLTS.
64~When given a land command the NVEC Simulator shall immediately change the unmanned aerial vehicle's current altitude to the ground altitude.
284~While responding to a goto command the NVEC Simulator shall continue moving in steps towards the target coordinates until the target has been reached.
4984~When given a goto command the NVEC Simulator shall compute the next coordinate based upon the normal vector and altitude of the current position and the normal vector and altitude of the destination.
2400~The simulator shall move the unmanned aerial vehicle with infinite acceleration and use numerical methods to hone in on the next coordinate which will be SIMULATION STEP SIZE meters from the current position along the travel path.
3208~When given a takeoff command the NVEC Simulator shall move with infinite acceleration the unmanned aerial vehicle to the takeoff altitude corresponding to its current longitude and latitude.
36~When a simulated unmanned aerial vehicle is in flight the Internal Simulator shall reduce the battery every second by SIMULATOR BATTERY DRAIN VOLTS.
64~When given a land command the Internal Simulator shall immediately change the unmanned aerial vehicle's current altitude to the ground altitude.
284~While responding to a goto command the Internal Simulator shall continue moving in steps towards the target coordinates until the target has been reached.
32~When given a goto command the Internal Simulator shall compute the next coordinate based upon the angle of travel and the step size.
3208~When given a takeoff command the Internal Simulator shall move with infinite acceleration the unmanned aerial vehicle to the takeoff altitude corresponding to its current longitude and latitude.
2~The Internal Simulator shall approximate the state of the battery
16800~When given a landing command the Internal Simulator shall move the unmanned aerial vehicle from to the ground altitude corresponding to its current longitude and latitude.
2288~When given a goto command the Internal Simulator shall update the location of the unmanned aerial vehicle at increments of SIMULATION STEP SIZE meters moving it towards the target destination until the destination is reached.
948~When given a takeoff command the Internal Simulator shall move the unmanned aerial vehicle to the takeoff altitude corresponding to its current longitude and latitude.
4~The Internal Simulator shall approximate the behavior of a unmanned aerial vehicle.
16~The unmanned aerial vehicle Registration Manager shall store unmanned aerial vehicle metadata information such as the unmanned aerial vehicle's technical characteristics
8~The maximum number of activated unmanned aerial vehicles shall be defined as MAX unmanned aerial vehicle
12~When the maximum numbers of allowed activated unmanned aerial vehicles has been reached the unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager shall reject any further activation requests.
36~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is deactivated all scheduled flight plans shall be removed from the unmanned aerial vehicle's flightplan pool.
36~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is deactivated the unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager shall cancel all current and scheduled flight plans
48~If the presented unmanned aerial vehicle ID represents a currently registered unmanned aerial vehicle then the unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager shall activate the unmanned aerial vehicle.
48~If the presented unmanned aerial vehicle ID does not represent a currently registered unmanned aerial vehicle then the unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager will reject the activation and notify the ground control station Middleware
1146~When receiving a new activation request from the ground control station Middleware the unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager shall check that the presented unmanned aerial vehicle ID represents a currently registered and non activated unmanned aerial vehicle.
312~If the presented unmanned aerial vehicle ID represents a currently activated unmanned aerial vehicle then the ground control station Middleware will be notified and no additional activation will be performed.
60~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is in LANDING state and reaches zero altitude it transitions to ON GROUND
140~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is in IN AIR state and receives a command to land it transitions to LANDING state
154~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is IN AIR state and is assigned a flight plan to execute it transitions to FLYING
4~The system shall support internally simulated unmanned aerial vehicles
4~The Vehicle Core shall support virtual unmanned aerial vehicles
3984~The Vehicle Core shall support unmanned aerial vehicles capable of receiving and responding to commands sent via the ground control station
24~The Vehicle Core shall support unmanned aerial vehicles connected via the ground control station
116~An internally simulated unmanned aerial vehicle is instantiated with an ID that is unique from the IDs of all other currently activated unmanned aerial vehicles.
6688~An activation request for a unmanned aerial vehicle that is received from the ground control station Middleware is only accepted if the unmanned aerial vehicle provides an ID unique from all other currently activated unmanned aerial vehicles.
41~Each Virtual and Physical drone is associated with a predefined unmanned aerial vehicle TYPE defining its basic attributes.
40~If an obstacle is detected within a distance of MIN STOPPING DISTANCE the Object Avoidance system shall issue a 'hover in place' command
4~The ObjectAvoidance system shall compute pairwise distances between unmanned aerial vehicles
4~The Object Avoidance system shall maintain a list of unmanned aerial vehicle states
12~The Object Avoidance system shall retrieve the state of the unmanned aerial vehicles onboard ObjectAvoidance status.
8~The Object Avoidance system shall retrieve unmanned aerial vehicle properties and shall check all directives against them.
72128~When a unmanned aerial vehicle which has been receiving evasive directives is no longer in close proximity to an object the Object Avoidance system shall stop sending directives and the unmanned aerial vehicle will continue towards its destination.
6~When a group of unmanned aerial vehicles are assigned flight patterns as part of a mission the system shall provide a warning if any paths overlap.
240~A flight pattern shall document the longitude latitude and altitude of waypoints in a flight route as offsets from the starting position of the unmanned aerial vehicle.
4~When the flight plan is aborted the unmanned aerial vehicle switches to hover in place mode
2~An aborted flight plan shall not be reassigned to any unmanned aerial vehicle
4~When the flight plan is aborted it shall be removed from the associated unmanned aerial vehicle.
4~If requested the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall abort the currently executing flight plan of an unmanned aerial vehicle
2~Each unmanned aerial vehicle can only store one currently executing flight plan ID.
115~The currently executing flight plan ID is associated with the unmanned aerial vehicle executing it.
4352~If a unmanned aerial vehicle does not have any pending flight plans then when it reaches the final waypoint of its current flight plan the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall notify the unmanned aerial vehicle to hover in place.
2848~If the flight plan queue is not empty when the unmanned aerial vehicle reaches the final waypoint of its current flight plan then the next flight plan is removed from the queue and set as the currently executed flight plan.
9128~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is issued a return to home command during a flight then the current flight plan is aborted and all scheduled flight plans are removed from its flight plan queue.
48~If a flight plan is not assigned to a specific unmanned aerial vehicle the flight plan scheduler shall automatically assign it to the next available unmanned aerial vehicle.
88~If a scheduled flight is not manually assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall assign the route automatically to an unmanned aerial vehicle
20~When a flight plan is assigned to a specific unmanned aerial vehicle it shall be placed in the unmanned aerial vehicle's execution queue.
88~If a route contains a specific unmanned aerial vehicle ID the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall assign the route to the given unmanned aerial vehicle.
12~When a flight route is scheduled for execution its waypoints takeoff altitude and identifier shall be used to instantiate a new flight plan
4~When requested the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall schedule a route for execution.
312~When requested by the user a currently executing mission plan shall be cancelled by removing all pending flight plans and removing all synchronization points.
8~When requested if a mission is currently active the Mission Planner shall cancel the active mission.
312192~The Flight Pattern for synchronized landing shall direct each unmanned aerial vehicle to synchronize at the final waypoint of the preceding route ascend or descend to a unique altitude synchronize fly to the longitude and latitude of the home coordinates synchronize and then descend to the landing altitude.
184832~The Flight Pattern for synchronized takeoff shall direct each unmanned aerial vehicle to takeoff to a unique altitude synchronize with other unmanned aerial vehicles fly at the unique altitude to the longitude and latitude of the first waypoint of the subsequent route synchronize with other unmanned aerial vehicles descend or ascend to the target waypoint and synchronize with other unmanned aerial vehicles to complete the flight pattern.
2396~When a predefined Flight Pattern is included in a MissionPlan it shall be expanded prior to use into a set of waypoints and synchronization points for each of the participating unmanned aerial vehicles.
2~The Mission Planner shall manage predefined Flight Patterns
4~The Mission Plan shall be specified as a JSON file (see attached example).
1376~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is executing flight plans and reaches a synchronization point it shall wait to proceed until all other unmanned aerial vehicles sharing the same synchronization point have also reached this point.
140408~The flight plans of two or more unmanned aerial vehicles shall be synchronized by inserting shared synchronization points between the ordered list of flight routes assigned to each participating unmanned aerial vehicle.
1224~Each individual unmanned aerial vehicle that is included in a MissionPlan shall have an ordered list of one or more flight routes assigned to it.
32~If a unmanned aerial vehicle is in the air when a flight plan is assigned the takeoff altitude in the flight plan is ignored.
672~If no takeoff altitude is prescribed in the flight plan assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle currently on the ground then the system wide default altitude is used as the target takeoff altitude.
96~If a takeoff altitude is prescribed in the flight plan assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle currently on the ground then that altitude is used as the target takeoff altitude.
64~When the takeoff command is issued the Flight Scheduling And Execution checks for a prespecified altitude in the flight plan.
64~When a flight plan is activated for a unmanned aerial vehicle currently on the ground the Flight Scheduling And Execution shall notify the unmanned aerial vehicle to takeoff vertically until it reaches the prescribed altitude.
448~When the unmanned aerial vehicle reaches a target waypoint if additional waypoints are specified in the flight plan then the Vehicle Core shall send the next waypoint to the unmanned aerial vehicle's ground control station.
84~If the computed distance from the unmanned aerial vehicle to the target waypoint is less than THRESHOLD WAYPOINT DISTANCE than the waypoint shall be considered reached.
768~When the Vehicle Core receives the unmanned aerial vehicle's current coordinates and if the unmanned aerial vehicle has an assigned target waypoint then the Vehicle Core shall compute the current distance to the target waypoint.
32~At the start of a flight plan the system shall send the first target waypoint to the unmanned aerial vehicle's ground control station.
12~When the hover in place command is rescinded the unmanned aerial vehicle's state is reverted to its previous state.
20~If a flight plan is active and the hover in place command is rescinded the Flight Manager shall notify the unmanned aerial vehicle to continue to the originally designated waypoint.
96~If the unmanned aerial vehicle is in 'hover in place' mode then no waypoints directives for that unmanned aerial vehicle shall be sent to the ground control station.
264~If a flight route is assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle which is currently hovering in place the Flight Manager shall assign the route and maintain the hover in place mode.
72~When the unmanned aerial vehicle is commanded to hover in place its state is changed to hover in place and a command is sent to the ground control station.
48~When the hover in place command is issued the Flight Manager shall halt the unmanned aerial vehicle in place and maintain its current position.
13900~When the unmanned aerial vehicle is commanded to return to home the current flight plan shall be removed and a new flight plan shall be created containing only a single waypoint representing its original launch coordinates.
6~Direction between two coordinates shall be specified using a velocity vector from the first coordinate.
33~Distances computed between two coordinates shall be accurate within 1 meter over a distance of 400 000 meters.
40~When given two coordinates the Coordinate System shall compute the direction from the first coordinate to the second coordinate.
4~When given two coordinates the Coordinate System shall compute the distance between them.
2~When requested coordinates shall be transformed from p vectors to the default representation.
2~When requested coordinates shall be transformed from n vectors to the default representation.
28~When requested the Coordinate System shall be transform coordinates from the default representation to p vectors.
26~When requested the Coordinate System shall transform coordinates transformed from the default representation to n vectors.
1~The default coordinate representation shall use LLA (longitude latitude altitude) format.
6~When requested the Coordinate System shall transform coordinates to alternate formats.
1~The flight route xml format includes an optional takeoff altitude tag
468~When a flight route requser interfaceres a customized takeoff altitude that differs from the system's default takeoff altitude it shall be specified in the flight route.
172~When the User Interface Middleware requests a flight route identified by its unique name the Fligh Route Manager shall retrieve the associated file.
8~When a flight route is uploaded to Dronology the Flight Route Manager shall save it under a unique name as an xml file.
2~The Flight Route Manager shall persist flight routes.
933353585~Upon receipt of a new or modified flight route from the user interface middleware the Flight Route Manager shall check that it is a VALID FLIGHT ROUTE that is that all waypoints are valid coordinates and that the flight route contains at least one waypoint.
4~The Flight Route Manager shall ensure that all flight routes represent a VALID FLIGHT ROUTE.
4~Flight routes shall be specified in the standard XML FlightRoute format.
1184~The Flight Route Manager shall define flight routes as an ordered sequence of waypoints in which the first waypoint represents the first target location and the final waypoint represents the final target location.
2~When a mode change message to USER CONTROLLED is received the Vehicle shall transition to USER CONTROLLED.
29592~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is executing flight plans and reaches a synchronization point which is followed by a delay task it shall wait to proceed until the delay specified in seconds is expired
38~The Mission Planner shall provide an interface to support the execution of predefined missions specified in JSON.
4~The Dronology Runtime Monitor shall allow to publish arbitrary monitoring messages and subscribe to certain message types
4~The open street map component shall support multiple map providers.
36120~When the return to home command is issued the Flight Manager shall return the unmanned aerial vehicle to its original launch location without issuser interfaceng any additional waypoint or routing commands.
123~Waypoints in a flight route shall be colored so as to differentiate between the starting waypoint ending waypoint and all remaining intermediate waypoints.
16~The Mission Planner shall synchronize and coordinate the flights of multiple unmanned aerial vehicles.
8~In step one the ground control station announces itself to the ground control station Middleware providing its unique ID.
52~The ground control station Middleware shall handle multiple ground control station at the same time.
108~When routes are assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle a request shall be sent to the User Interface Middleware to update the assignment in Dronology.
24~When the ground control station loses the connection to an unmanned aerial vehicle the ground control station shall attempt to reconnect
1~The user interface shall display the waypoints and their connections.
876~All commands sent to and messages received from a ground control station shall be logged to a dedicated ground control station log file
1~Position reckoning shall utilize the WGS 84 reference system.
912~"Upon loading the user interface requests all existing routes from the User Interface Middleware, Once the User Interface Middleware respond to the request the user interface displays all existing routes"
12~The unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager shall only activate unmanned aerial vehicles that are registered.
32~When a ground control station requests activation of a newly detected unmanned aerial vehicle the ground control station Middleware shall forward the request to Dronology.
8~When a unmanned aerial vehicle has an active onboard Obstacle Avoidance then the Obstacle Avoidance system shall not issue directives
12~The Object Avoidance system only issues commands within the capabilities of the unmanned aerial vehicle
4~If a unmanned aerial vehicle takes evasive actions the system will ensure that it will eventually reach its destination
256~When a stationary or moving object is within the proximity of a unmanned aerial vehicle the Object Avoidance system shall issue evasive directives to the unmanned aerial vehicle
17~Configuration parameters including map coordinates scale map style and color scheme shall be stored in a JSON Object on the server
4~The unmanned aerial vehicle location shall be updated on the map at the currently defined user interface unmanned aerial vehicle REFRESH RATE
36~The Real Time Flight User Interface shall display the location of active unmanned aerial vehicles as icons on the map.
60~Unless otherwise configured in the configuration parameters the map shall be centered at White Field University of Notre Dame South Bend IN.
2~When loading the map it shall be scaled as specified in the configuration.
8~If no scale information is provided in the configuration the map shall display at a scale of MAP DEFAULT SCALE.
4~When the Real Time Flight User Interface is loaded a map shall be displayed.
36~The name state battery level speed and current coordinates of each unmanned aerial vehicle shall be displayed.
112~If a command is issued by the Vaadin User Interface for an unmanned aerial vehicle the Vaadin User Interface shall request control of that unmanned aerial vehicle.
20~The User Interface Middleware shall only assign one control client at a time for each unmanned aerial vehicle.
12~The User Interface Middleware shall provide an interface for registering user interface clients.
29~All flight plans executed and waypoints reached shall be logged to a dedicated flight log file.
1328~When a unmanned aerial vehicle's current flight is cancelled the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall in turn cancel all scheduled flight plans for that unmanned aerial vehicle.
256~If a unmanned aerial vehicle has pending flight plans then when it reaches the final waypoint of its current flight plan the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall execute the next assigned flight plan.
112~If requested the Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall unassign the flight plan assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle that is awaiting execution.
20~A flight plan shall be unassigned from a unmanned aerial vehicle by removing it from the unmanned aerial vehicle's flight plan queue.
817~The Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall maintain a managed list of pending flight plans for Each unmanned aerial vehicle.
4~The pending flight plans of a unmanned aerial vehicle may be reordered
12~By default the pending flight plansof a unmanned aerial vehicle's shall be serviced in FCFS order.
408~If the flight plan queue is empty when the unmanned aerial vehicle reaches the final waypoint of its current flight plan then its state is set to IN AIR.
8~When a flight plan is executed the Vehicle Core shall send the next waypoint to the unmanned aerial vehicle.
5~Each waypoint shall be specified using coordinates that include longitude latitude and altitude.
8~Flight routes shall be created externally and uploaded to Dronology via the user interface middleware.
72~The Vehicle Core shall associate a unmanned aerial vehicle TYPE for each unmanned aerial vehicle defining its basic attributes.
12~The unmanned aerial vehicle Activation Manager shall ensure that only one instance of each registered drone is active at any time.
178~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is in FLYING state and has no currently executing flight plan it transitions to IN AIR
8~When a unmanned aerial vehicle in the TAKING OFF state achieves the target altitude it transitions to FLYING state.
24~When permission is granted to unmanned aerial vehicle in the AWAITING TAKEOFF CLEARANCE state it transitions to TAKING OFF state.
192~When a flight plan is assigned to a unmanned aerial vehicle in the ON GROUND state it transitions to the AWAITING TAKEOFF CLEARANCE state.
20~The Single unmanned aerial vehicle Flight Plan Scheduler shall only execute one flight plan at a time for each unmanned aerial vehicle.
30~Each unmanned aerial vehicle has zero or more pending flight plans.
32~When a unmanned aerial vehicle is initially activated on the ground it is in the ON GROUND state
4~The Vehicle Core shall assign a unique ID to each activated unmanned aerial vehicle.
1~Altitude shall be specified in meters
22~All waypoints shall be specified using degrees longitude and latitude using Decimal Degrees format
30~A client may register with the User Interface Middleware to receive notifications whenever unexpected events occur.
180~A client shall register with the User Interface Middleware to receive notifications whenever unmanned aerial vehicle instances are activated or deactivated.
30~A client shall register with the User Interface Middleware to receive notifications whenever a new flight plan is activated or executed
120~A client shall register with the User Interface Middleware to receive notifications whenever a new unmanned aerial vehicle type configuration is created modified or deleted.
192~A client shall register with the User Interface Middleware to receive unmanned aerial vehicle type specification events whenever a new unmanned aerial vehicle type specification is created modified or deleted.
60~A client shall register with the User Interface Middleware to receive flight route event notifications whenever a flight route is created modified or deleted.
16~If a client registers for notifications the User Interface Middleware shall send notifications for specific events
120~When requested the Vehicle Core shall transition the unmanned aerial vehicle between states according to allowed state transitions as depicted in the unmanned aerial vehicle state transition diagram
